
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the City of Baltimore we have news from New York to the evening of the 18th ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS BY SEA AND LAND.

Fort Pulaski and its garrison, on the Savannah River, surrendered unconditionally to the Federals on the 11th ult. Seven large breaches were made in the walls by the Federal batteries of Parrott guns at King's Landing, and all the barbette guns on that side, and three casemate guns, were dismounted. The loss on both sides was only one man killed and three wounded. Pulaski is eighteen miles above the city of Savannah, which can now be reached by the Federal gun-boats.

Accounts from the South state that the Federals have attacked Forts Jackson and Philip, which guard the approaches to New Orleans.
There has been fighting between the main armies near Yorktown. On the one side the Federal gun-boats had shelled Yorktown without effect; on the other, the Confederates had made a sortie in strong force with the object of turning the left flank of the Federal army. General M'Clellan telegraphs to the Federal Government that the Confederates were repulsed by General Smith. President Davis is reported to be in command of the Southern forces.  

The Merrimac has made no further sortie.

General Beauregard's official report of the second day's battle at Pittsburg Landing is to this effect:—

Corinth, Tuesday, April 8.

To the Secretary of War, Richmond.—We have gained a great and glorious victory. Eight or ten thousand prisoners and thirty-six pieces of cannon. Buell reinforced Grant, and we retired to our intrenchments at Corinth, which we can hold. Loss heavy on both sides. BEAUREGARD.

The Federal War Department flatly denies the truth of this report. The official report of General Grant, the Federal commander, after describing the first day's fight, says:—

During the night all was quiet: and, feeling that a great moral advantage would be gained by being the attacking party, an advance was ordered as soon as the day dawned. The result was the gradual repulse of the enemy at all points of the line, from nine o'clock till probably five o'clock in the afternoon, when it became evident that the enemy was retreating. My force was too much fatigued, from two days' hard fighting and exposure in the open air to a drenching rain during the intervening night, to pursue immediately. General Sherman, however, followed the enemy, finding that the main part of their army had retreated in good order.

It estimates the Federal loss at 1500 killed and 3500 wounded. It says nothing of those who may be "missing." It admits a heavy loss of artillery, and more than 200 artillery horses.

The Confederate army has its head-quarters at the foot of Pea Ridge, extending two miles from Corinth. The advanced Federal forces are eight miles from Pittsburg, leaving only two miles between the opposing armies. An advance by the Federals may be expected at any moment. General Halleck had arrived from St. Louis, and assumed the command.

A gun-boat expedition had on the night of the 12th ult. proceeded up the Tennessee River to a point near Eastport, Mississippi, landed, and proceeding to Bear Creek Bridge, destroyed two bridges on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad. This cuts off all communication between the Confederates at Corinth with Alabama and the rest of the south, except Louisiana and Texas.

The Federal General Mitchell now holds 100 miles of the Memphis and Charleston Railroad—from Decatur to Chattanooga. In doing this he claims to have cut the great artery of railway communication between the Southern States.

WASHINGTON.

M. Mercier, the French Minister at Washington, had suddenly left for Richmond viâ Fortress Monroe. The object of his mission is the subject of much speculation. From remarks in the Richmond papers it appears that the French ship-of-war which conveyed him did not salute the Confederate flag at Norfolk or elsewhere.

The Senate's Committee on Foreign Relations, to which the new treaty between Great Britain and the United States for the suppression of the slave trade had been referred, have reported it back without amendment, and with the favourable indorsement of the committee. It is expected that it will receive the prompt sanction of the Senate.

President Lincoln has sent a message to Congress announcing his signature and approval of the bill emancipating the slaves in the district of Columbia. In this message he says he never doubted the constitutional authority of Congress to abolish slavery in the district, and always desired to see the national capital freed from slavery in some satisfactory way. Hence he never had had in his mind any question on the subject except the one of expediency, arising in view of all the circumstances.

Three commissioners have been appointed to investigate and determine the value of the slaves affected by this important measure.

The United States have no bankrupt law, and the House of Representatives have postponed the consideration of a proposed measure of this kind until the fourth Wednesday in December. 

MISCELLANEOUS.

Subscriptions for the wounded at Pittsburg Landing are being collected all over the Union.

Mr. Cameron, ex-Secretary of War and newly-appointed Minister to Russia, has been arrested in Philadelphia, on a warrant issued by the sheriff's officers, on a complaint of Mr. Pierce Butler (husband of Mrs. Kemble Butler) for alleged illegal arrest. Other persons who believe themselves to have been aggrieved in the same way are eager to punish Mr. Cameron for his arbitrary conduct.

The fugitive negro, or so-called "contraband," question increases in dimensions and difficulty of solution. The further the Federal armies invade the soil of the Confederate States the more numerous become the black refugees who seek shelter beneath their banner. Senator Grimes, from Iowa, has made a speech in the Senate in favour of garrisoning the Southern ports with blacks during the unhealthy season. Public opinion is, however, not yet prepared to give its assent to such a bold proposition. More in harmony with it is the President's reply to the committee of the Freedmen's Association:—"I am entirely satisfied that no man who becomes for the time free within the American lines will ever be re-enslaved. Rather than have it so, I would give up and abdicate."

The Californian Legislature has passed an Act levying a tax of 30 dollars per annum on all the Chinese in the State, as well labourers as those washing in the mines. This tax was formerly imposed only on Chinese miners.