
The Civil War in America
      

By the Jura we have received New York journals of the 27th ult., and telegrams to the evening of the 29th.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS ON SEA AND LAND.

There have been no movements of any importance since our last. Mr. Lincoln and General Scott seem to be waiting for the sanction of Congress, which was to reassemble on the 4th inst., before ordering any further advance into Virginia. The report of the cutting to pieces of the Home Guard at Piedmont, and the surrounding of an Indiana regiment at Cumberland, Maryland, by Confederates under the command of General Johnston, was entirely without foundation. The Governor of Missouri, when last heard of, was marching southward, with a view of securing the lead-mines in the south-west corner of the State. It was reported that Arkansas troops were on their way to aid the State Government of Missouri against the Federal Government. The blockading fleet have captured the British ship Amelia, bound to Charleston, and laden with stores said to be contraband of war—which were iron crates, camp-ovens, equipage, and machinery. She has been taken to New York. Another British ship, the Forfarshire, has been captured in the Gulf of Mexico,—reason not stated.

Professor Lowe has been taking observations of the Confederate positions near Washington in his balloon, and communicating the results by means of an electric-telegraph apparatus which he takes up with him, the wire of which connects with friends below.

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.

Connection between these States and the civilised world continues to be maintained by the telegraph and railway lines which run through Kentucky, and by private letter-delivery companies, which have their head-quarters in Louisville, the chief city of this neutral State.

The Southerners, in addition to their other wants, stand in need of lucifer-matches and quinine. In many places they are obliged to have recourse to the old-fashioned tinder-box. The demand for quinine suggests the idea of fever and ague, so endemic in the Southern and Western States. A Philadelphia house refused lately to supply even a Kentucky purchaser with this valuable drug.

The people of Eastern Tennessee refuse to send representatives to the Legislature of Tennessee. Senator Andrew Johnson, who resides in this region, has been to Washington, and, it is said, obtained the promise of Mr. Lincoln that his people shall receive assistance from the Federal authorities.

The Federal Government have recognised the provisional Government of Western Virginia as the only lawful executive—the theory being that the regularly-appointed State Government has forfeited its rights by committing acts of treason against the United States.

THE NEUTRAL STATES.

General Banks has arrested Marshal Kane, the chief of the Baltimore police, on a charge of treason, and has appointed a provost-marshal for the city. Marshal Kane has been sent to Fort M'Henry. The Baltimoreans sympathise strongly with him.

With Kentucky a sort of concordat has been made. She is to execute all United States' laws as expounded by the Federal judicature. The Federal troops will not invade her soil provided she does not allow it to be occupied by the enemy.

Thirty-four companies had volunteered their services to the Federal Government from Kentucky. The election returns from this State indicate that nearly all the Union candidates for Congress have been elected.

THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT.

According to a statement furnished by the Secretary of War to President Lincoln for the message to Congress, about 225,000 volunteers are now mustered in the United States' service.

General Dembinski, the celebrated Pole, has offered his services to the Federal Government.

THE NORTHERN STATES.

A mob has attacked the banks in Milwaukie [sic], Wisconsin. The military were ordered out, and arrested thirty of the rioters. A strict guard is kept over the gaol to prevent a rescue. The reason for the attack was the throwing out of the notes of several of the State banks.

The French declaration of neutrality has been well received by the New York press. They profess to be able to see an important difference between it and that of Great Britain.

The New York Times of the 23rd ult. directs public attention to the approaching International Exhibition of 1862. It says in referenre [sic] to the speedy appointment of a commission, "We know that a large number of our best mechanicians are anxious to exhibit, and we would inquire, on their behalf, if our Government has taken any steps in the matter. One day's time, expended by the proper bureau, could well be spared from war matters, and would be ample to settle this whole business. We earnestly recommend this extremely important subject to the attention of the Government: it is a subject not of temporary, but of permanent, importance to the people."

The crew of the captured privateer Savannah has been thus analysed by a New York evening paper:—the captain is a Philadelphian by birth; the first officer and purser are South Carolinians; the sailing master a North Carolinian. Of the deck hands three are Irish, two are Scotch, one each from New York and Massachusetts, and one from Germany. The steward is a native of Manilla, and the cook of China.

Only one-third of the six per cent State loan of Indiana was taken at satisfactory prices in New York. The lowest offer accepted was at 15 per cent discount.

Northern public opinion is impatient of the Fabian tactics of General Scott, denounces the Kentucky concordat, and suspects treachery in the non-recall of Mr. Harvey, the newly-appointed Minister to Portugal, and the ex-correspondent of the Charleston Mercury.

The New York police have seized at a merchant's office a petition, with numerous signatures, praying the Federal Administration to suspend hostilities.
A movement is on foot in the southern portion of California to join the Confederate States.
