
Latest News From Abroad.
      

The following telegrams were received through Mr. Reuters's office yesterday (Friday):—

THE CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.

By the steamer City of New York, which arrived at Queenstown on Thursday, we have intelligence from New York to the 15th inst:—

There is no conclusive evidence of the occupation of Beaufort by the Federals. The Charleston papers of the 12th inst. deny that the Federals have occupied the town, and state that reinforcements had been sent thither by the Confederates who were preparing to defend the town. The Federals, however, have occupied Hilton Island, the cotton crop on which was found to have been fired by the residents before leaving. The Charleston Courier says there is little cotton stored at or near Beaufort. The New York journals state that the Federal Government has not determined whether Beaufort shall be made a port of entry. The Southern journals state that black flags have been hoisted at Charleston and Savannah as an indication that no quarter would be given and that none would be asked.

Eighteen Federal officers, prisoners of war at Richmond, have been selected to be hung, should the Federal Government hang the crew of the privateer Savannah.

Confirmatory accounts have been received of bridge-burning on a most extensive scale by the Union men of East Tennessee, Missouri.

The Federal army has evacuated Springfield, Missouri, returning to St. Louis.

It is reported that a United States' war-vessel has captured a large British steamer, supposed to be the Fingal, laden with arms, at Key West.

Colonel Cochrane, in addressing his regiment at Washington, urged the arming of the Southern slaves against their masters. The Secretary for War was present on the occasion, and is reported to have fully endorsed Colonel Cochrane's speech.

A despatch from Fortress Monroe reports the arrival of the United States' steam-sloop-of-war San Jacinto, with Messrs. Slidell and Mason on board.

The reported battle at Pikeville, Kentucky, was very much exaggerated. There were no killed, and the number of wounded and prisoners is reduced to 80 and 50 respectively.

The report of the capture of the Sumter has not been confirmed.

Opinions of the French Press on the Capture of the Southern Commisstioners.— Paris, Nov. 28.—The Patrie of this evening, in an article signed by M. Cuchevul-Clarigny, maintains that the agent of the Washington Cabinet had no right to arrest the Southern Commissioners while on board an English mail steamer; and asserts that the English Government has ordered preparations to he made for the immediate dispatch of reinforcements to Canada. The Pays and Constitutionnel censure the conduct of the commander of the Federal vessel San Jacinto.
	  