
Illustrations of the War in America
   

TEXAN RANGERS (FEDERALISTS) RECONNOITRING.
Scarcely anything more picturesque can be conceived than a troop of these rangers (as depicted on our first page) galloping wildly through the woody ravines of Virginia, between Alexandria and Fairfax, their carbines held ready for action at a moment's notice. To see them rattling along, draped in their loose ponchos, their stern, bearded faces shadowed by the overlapping brims of their sombreros, one might almost fancy them a troop of Cromwellian cavalry in grim pursuit of Cavaliers.

KILLING BULLOCKS IN CAMP, VIRGINIA.
	  The regiments encamped at a distance from Commissariat Storehouse in the Federal camp get their fresh meat distributed to them alive, a bullock being unceremoniously turned into the canvas streets for them to slaughter, cut up, and prepare as they may think fit. The fashion of dispatching the beast (as shown at page 271) is usually as follows:—Lassos are thrown over its horns and made fast, when three or four men on each side hang on with all their strength and steady the animal's head. Some of the best shots in the regiment are then chosen, and one advances, takes deliberate aim at the forehead, and, if successful, the poor brute rolls over dead. Should he, however, simply wound it, those who have hold of the ropes have a rough time of it, being dragged about the field until the animal is again secured, when another marksman steps forward, and generally finishes the work.

UNION TROOPS ATTACKING CONFEDERATE PRISONERS AT WASHINGTON.
	  There was a general impression among the disorganised Federalist soldiers after the battle of Bull Run that their wounded had been inhumanly treated by the Confederates. Many cases of cruelty were narrated, with much circumstantiality, in the Unionist journals. Some of them, it is to be feared, were but too true. Among the first to feel the consequences of the anger aroused by the recital of these deeds of cold- blooded cruelty were some wretched prisoners paraded through Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington, two days after the engagement. It was with the greatest difficulty their guard defended them from the attacks of the demoralised Union men. This incident is depicted on the preceding[sic] page.

ARREST OF MR. FAULKNER AT WASHINGTON.
On the return of Mr. Faulkner from his mission at Paris he went, as is the custom in such cases, to Washington, in order to report his arrival to the Executive. While awaiting the settlement of certain formalities he took apartments at Brown's Hotel, and it was here he was arrested. It appears that Mr. Faulkner, a Southern man, is imbued with Southern tendencies; and it is charged against him that during his period of office in France he encouraged the Secessionist agents in every possible way, and even went so far as to purchase arms from French manufacturers for the use of the Confederate States—endeavouring also to procure the recognition of the Southern Confederacy by the French Government. Mr. Faulkner is now lodged in close confinement at the Provost Marshal's office; and it is reported that among the documents found with his effects papers of a treasonable character have been discovered.
	