
London, Saturday, November 9, 1861.
      

Mexico now has full notice of what is in store for her.

They are coming, and they are three.

The terms of the convention under which England, France, and Spain intend to act are before the public, and nothing can be more just or fair. The Powers enter upon the scene less as soldiers than as policemen. It is specially agreed that no Power is to acquire any territory. The important places are to be occupied, and then the Mexicans themselves will be rather stringently invited to set their house in order. It has also been provided, in order that the "United" States may have no pretext for complaint, that President Lincoln may send in aid of the expedition any number of ships which he can spare from his operations against the South. It is to be hoped that the ruffians who, under the priests, at present exercise unrestrained sway in the unfortunate country in question will not avail themselves of the interval between the announcement and the arrival of the expedition to commit new atrocities. If they should do so, the duties of the policeman will have to be temporarily exchanged for those of the Provost Marshal and it is possible that the Mexican brigands may have a distinct idea that such will be the case. Lieutenant-Colonel Lowder commands our force, and the officers have received orders to proceed to Plymouth for embarkation.
The American question is treated elsewhere. Here it may be sufficient to note, as part of the record of the war, that the Federals have suffered another and a severe repulse on the Potomac, losing a General and 600 men. Smaller affairs are reported, in which the Federals state themselves to have had the advantage, but the Southern journals deny this. But a grand naval blow is now to be struck; and at the last mails a fleet of eighty vessels, with from 30,000 to 40,000 men on board, was to sail the next day, probably to attack New Orleans. We have no information that justifies our believing that the South has adequate means of resisting such an onslaught; but the Confederates speak undauntedly, and declare that, be the victory as complete as it may, it shall be a barren one. The army, under General M'Lellan, was daily expected to advance upon the enemy.
