
London, Saturday, September 21, 1861
   

From each succeeding week's news we gather that the struggle in the States is assuming more and more steadily the aspect of a real war, to be carried on according to the known rules, and in all respects after the fashion, of the Old-World contests. The singular mlange of vainglorious boastings and lamentable shortcomings, of military tailoring, scandalous jobs, female influence, and incompetent officering, is gradually dying out before the stern exigencies of the occasion. The first well-organised expedition under this new rgime has proved entirely successful; and, though the overwhelming amount of force employed may detract a little from the honour and glory of the encounter, yet the importance of the position may fully compensate for any deficiency on that head. The Northerners have established themselves in command of the extensive system of gulfs and creeks which lie immediately behind the easternmost point of the Southern States, and which have hitherto supplied at once protection and a vast natural harbour for privateers, and they have thus at once struck a heavy blow at this questionable system of sea robbery and at the same time secured an important outpost in the enemy's country. In all probability a similarly well-planned expedition is at this moment sweeping down the Mississippi, and which, if successful, will have the effect, in conjunction with the blockade and the attitude of the Federal troops along the Northern border, of surrounding and isolating the whole eastern portion of the Seceding States. We suppose, by-the-way, no sane man in this country ever believed that in the present aspect of Italian affairs Garibaldi would for a moment dream of putting the Atlantic between himself and the Mediterranean at present. His refusal is now formally announced. The Southerners appear to have made a decided move in the direction of English interference: the quasi proclamation of an intention to store the whole cotton crop and issue State Bonds against it can have no other meaning than to invite, or rather compel, us in behalf of Manchester, to break the blockade. The step is only another proof of how little our Transatlantic cousins understand our temper. We shall do nothing of the sort; we can buy and grow cotton elsewhere, though we admit that at present there is a doubt as to quality. But we are not going to war for Manchester, much as we desire to see it prosperous; and this naturally brings up a regret at the somewhat gloomy aspect of commercial affairs in Lancashire and elsewhere.
	