
               Foreign and Colonial News
               
               FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWSTHE CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.
               No further collision between the hostile parties is announced. Telegraphic communication has been restored between New York and Washington, and the Federal capital was believed to be safe from any attack by the Secessionists, there being 18,000 men in Washington.
               Warlike preparations were, however, continued with the same activity, both in the Northern and in the Southern States. President Jefferson Davis, in his message to the Southern Congress, which assembled at Montgomery on the 29th ult., declared that the South would resist to the direst extremities the attempt to subjugate her. Governor Letcher has issued a proclamation ordering the Virginian volunteers to remain at home until they should be summoned by the State authorities, and he has declared to President Lincoln his resolution not to permit the troops of the Southern Confederacy to traverse Virginia for the purpose of attacking Washington. In Maryland, too, the Secessionist excitement seems to have somewhat abated, for the Union flag was said to be displayed over the Baltimore Custom House, and a "test vote" of the Maryland Legislature showed a majority of thirty-eight against secession. In Tennessee, however, the State Convention was reported to have passed an ordinance for the secession of the State. President Lincoln had issued a proclamation ordering the blockade of the ports of North Carolina and Virginia, and has informed Governor Letcher that Federal troops would immediately attack Norfolk and Richmond if the Secessionists should make any military movements to the north of Richmond. The North Carolina Legislature has been convened. The State is virtually out of union, and is equipping for war. Fort Pickens has been reinforced, without resistance on the part of the Secessionists. The Governor of Missouri, in his message to the Legislature, condemns the action of President Lincoln's administration. The Texans had made 450 soldiers prisoners at Indianola, to which place they had been moved for embarkation, in consequence of General Twigg's treacherous agreement to evacuate Texas. The captives will be permitted to enlist in the Southern Army or will be compelled to take an oath not to serve during the war against the Southern Confederacy.
               President Lincoln has issued another proclamation calling for 42,000 volunteers—23,000 for the regular army and 18,000 seamen. The Secretary of the Washington Treasury has resolved to contract a loan of 14,000,000 dols.
               The Government has decided to establish an arsenal at once at Rock Island City, Illinois, in place of the Harper's Ferry Arsenal, just destroyed. Rock Island City stands on the banks of the Mississippi, 182 miles south-west of Chicago.
               The special correspondent of the Times writes from Charleston, where he has been inspecting the condition of Fort Sumter. He attributes the success of the attack to the skill of General Beauregard and the peculiar position of Major Anderson, who was obliged to witness with impunity the preparations of his adversaries. The New York Tribune publishes an extraordinary story as coming from a deserter from Charleston to the effect that between 300 and 400 men were killed in Fort Moultrie by the guns of Fort Sumter, and that they were secretly buried and the matter kept quiet.

            