
               Foreign and Colonial News.
               
               UNITED STATES.
               The resignation of Mr. Cobb has been followed by that of General Cass, Secretary of State, apparently from opposite reasons. General Cass resigned, it is stated, because the President declined to send more troops to Charleston. Mr. Trescott, the Assistant Secretary of State, has likewise resigned. The manifesto which declares that a southern confederacy is now alone possible is signed by representatives of Alabama, Georgia, Florida, Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana—a circumstance which, in itself, is a sufficient evidence of the formidable character of the secession movement. The special Committee of the House has, it is said, passed resolutions in favour of giving further guarantees to the South that her "peculiar institution" will be respected. In the House itself resolutions upon resolutions are being piled up, but none are adopted, and the divisions of opinion which exist are apparently hopeless. A resolution had been passed in the Senate providing for the appointment of a Select Commitee [sic] of thirteen to report on the state of the Union. Many of the southern members of Congress had signed a manifesto declaring that the day of compromise had passed, and that secession was inevitable.
               Mr. Buchanan had appointed the 4th of January as a day of national humiliation and prayer.
               The Louisiana Legislature has passed a bill providing for the election of delegates to a convention of the Southern States, and has voted a sum of 500,000 dollars for the purpose of arming the State militia; and the Legislature of South Carolina has taken steps for providing two war-steamers. The Senate of North Carolina had passed a bill for arming the State. The members of the South Carolina Convention were received at Charleston on the 18th ult. with military honours. The Convention had appointed a committee to prepare an address to the people of the Northern States.
               In the meantime, it is cheering to read that Kansas is to be admitted as a free State, and that the Nebraska Legislature has prohibited slavery in that territory.

            