
The Civil War in America
    
THE CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Etna at Queenstown, and the Nova Scotian at Londonderry, we have received news to the 13th inst.


BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS ON SEA AND LAND.

The Confederate ship-of-war Sumter ran the blockade off the port of Charleston, and escaped to sea. The privateer Jefferson Davis has captured five Northern vessels off Cape Halteras [sic], and sent them into unblockaded Southern ports. Six revenue-cutters have been dispatched from New York and Boston in pursuit of these marauders.

On land the fighting has been confined to General M'Lellan's division in Western Virginia, and General Lyon's in Missouri. The former division attacked the intrenched camp of the Confederates, numbering 2000 men, at Rich Mountain, near Beverley. The Confederates were routed, and all their guns, camp equipage, and waggons were captured. Sixty Confederates and twenty Unionists were killed in the encounter.

In Missouri a battle occurred at Carthage on the 5th inst. 1200 Federalists attacked 4000 State troops, and retired with a loss of eight men and forty-five wounded.

On the 12th Colonel Smith routed another body of State troops at Monroe, Missouri.

General Patterson is still at Martinsburg, where he has received large reinforcements. General Johnson, at the head of 16,000 Confederates, is stationed at Bunker's Hill, a place seven miles south of Martinsburg.

CONFEDERATE STATES.

No one is allowed to leave Richmond in any direction without a passport.
Colonel Taylor, who had been sent with despatches from Mr. Davis to Mr. Lincoln under the protection of a flag of truce, was sent back without an answer, his communication being of too frivolous a nature. It is supposed that it related to an exchange of prisoners.

WASHINGTON.

Congress reassembled on the 4th inst. Senator Johnson, of Tennessee[,] and five representatives from Western Virginia, were the only members present from any portion of the seceding States. The President's Message was received on the 5th. We give this important State paper in full in the Supplement at page 96.

Both Houses of Congress are busy at work legalising everything the President did during the recess, and voting men and money in excess even of what the Cabinet demanded. In pursuance of this policy Congress has determined to consider nothing at this Session but the naval and military appropriations, and the financial measures connected therewith.

A resolution passed the House of Representatives calling on the President for the correspondence which had taken place in consequence of the "insolent and aggressive" conduct of Spain in the invasion of San Domingo. The President replied that it was not advisable to produce the correspondence at present.

On the motion of Mr. Lovejoy, of Illinois, a man of Radical Anti-Slavery opinions, the House passed, by a vote of 92 against 55, the following resolutions:—1 . "That in the judgment of this House it is no part of the duty of the soldiers of the United States to capture or return fugitives slaves." 2. "That the Committee on the Judiciary be instituted to inquire into the expediency of repealing the law called the 'Fugitive Slave Law.' "

NEUTRAL STATES.

A State Convention of the people of Delaware, held at Dover, to consider the position of that State towards the contending Powers, passed resolutions favouring a recognition of the independence of the Confederate States as preferable to the continuance of civil war, and expressing a fear lest the doctrines and measures of the war party should lead to the subversion of the State Governments, and the erection of a consolidated Government on the ruins of the Federal Constitution.

The Baltimoreans are awed into quiet by the military occupation of their city by General Banks's division.

In St. Louis the printing matriel of a States-rights' journal has been seized by General Lyon, the Federal commander.

NORTHERN STATES.

The New York merchants have held a meeting to petition Congress to pass a bankrupt law.

The Connecticut Legislature has refused to ratify a constitutional amendment, passed by a previous Legislature, which conferred the right of suffrage on coloured citizens. The amendment is consequently lost.

The wife of Professor Longfellow, the poet, was burnt to death at Boston on the 10th.
