
Lord Mayor's Day
      

The annual ceremony of the Lord Mayor's Day was attended on Saturday with all the paraphernalia that have come through time-hallowed customs to be associated with that event. . . .
In the evening a more than usually influential company assembled to dine at the Guildhall. Among the speakers after dinner were the Duke of Cambridge, Lord Palmerston, and Mr. Adams, the United States' Minister. . . . Lord Palmerston congratulated the country on the satisfactory state of the revenue, and spoke of the present dearth of cotton as a temporary evil which would, no doubt, be productive of permanent good. "We shall find," he said, "in various quarters of the globe a sure, a certain, and an ample supply, which will prevent us being dependent on one source of production." . . . His Lordship touched but slightly on the American war. He "viewed the conflict with an affliction which no words could express; but it was not for us to pass judgment upon the dispute." The Lord Mayor offered to Mr. Adams "the entire sympathy of the whole British people." His Excellency, in returning thanks, said he was there to perpetuate the friendly relations between England and the United States. He dwelt chiefly on the honour which is paid in America to those who have distinguished themselves in the mother country, and made the troubles which distract his country conspicuous by the absence of any reference thereto in his address. . . .

Whilst Mr. Adams was being fêted at the Mansion House, Mr. Dudley Mann and Mr. Yancey, the Plenipotentiaries of the Confederate States, were dining and making speeches at the hall of the Fishmongers' Company. The Prime Warden expressed an earnest hope that the strife which is now raging in North America might speedily give way to peace. Mr. Yancey echoed this sentiment, but said there was no prospect of such a result so long as the Federal Government treated the people of the South as rebels. If the North would recognise them as belligerents, then the Confederate Government would be "inflexible on one point only—its honour and independence. For the great interests of peace and humanity it would yield much that is merely material or of secondary importance. The Southerners," he continued, "are fighting for the right to govern themselves, and for the purpose of resisting subjugation; and, though they are cut off from foreign trade, they are still in a position to equip and maintain in the field an army of 250,000 men. They have not sought, and they do not desire, foreign intervention; for they are united, and can fight their own battles. They are anxious to be recognised by the various Powers, but they have no reason to complain, nor do they feel aggrieved, because these great Powers see fit for a season to defer their formal recognition and reception into the family of nations." The report states that Mr. Yancey resumed his seat amid loud and continued cheering.
