
London, Saturday, November 2,1861
      

 The New York Herald has relieved the Courts of England, France, and Spain from embarrassment. They had desired to take certain steps in reference to Mexico, and, indeed, had made all preparations for the expedition, but there was a delay and a hesitation which are now accounted for. By the last mails came a number of the Herald, in which is contained the gracious permission for which the three Powers had been waiting. The journal says, "We see no objection to the united action of England, France, and Spain in this matter." All difficulty is now over; and, Mr. Bennett having graciously permitted Lord Palmerston, the Emperor, and Marshal O'Donnell to act, the expedition sails immediately. But it is right to add that Spain is cautioned against taking any isolated action of her own, and is informed that if she makes any attempt towards the conquest of Mexico the North will immediately declare war upon her. It is to be hoped, therefore, that the Marshal will at once dispach a grandee of the first class to call at the office of the Herald (north-west corner of Fulton and Nassau Streets, New York—but what need to mention the locale of the Herald or of the Great Pyramid?) and explain that nothing of the kind will be attempted. The other news from America is less satisfactory. There are renewed rumours of engagements, but of their importance or of their issues we have no coherent information.
With casualties, unless they present some special feature connecting them with larger questions, we do not deal; nor is our recurrence to a recent fearful event in America an exception to our rule. The hideous story of the burning of several unfortunate young ladies who were engaged in the business of a theatre in Philadelphia is not likely to be forgotten; but it may as well be forgotten unless it produces a result here. In London alone there are some five-and-twenty places of amusement open every night, and a similar accident might occur at any one of them. Managers are largely and generously befriended by the press: shortcomings are overlooked, and merits are praised to the very full of their deserts; and the press has ample right of appeal to the directors of our places of entertainment. We therefore ask, and shall gladly hear, though we hardly expect, replies in the affirmative. Is there, in any of the London theatres, a provision against fire on the stage? and, if so, is that provision kept in order, and are the servants of the theatre familiarizedfamiliarised with it?
