
               The Civil War in America
               
               The Civil War in America. Gallant Charge of Federal Cavalry into Fairfax Courthouse, Virginia.—From a Sketch by our Special Artist.
               There is no intelligence of particular interest from the Federal Army at Alexandria, though alarms were frequent, and a few skirmishes had taken place. Our Special Artist in America has sent us several Sketches from the seat of war, two of which we engrave. The gallant charge of forty-seven United States' cavalry through Fairfax Courthouse, which forms the subject of our first illustration, was made on the 31st ult. There was a considerable body of Secessionists in the village, twenty-seven of whom were killed. The Federal calvalry retired with the loss of six killed and missing. It having been reported that two of the prisoners were to be hanged by the Confederates, the United States' cavalry subsequently made another charge upon the town and released them. On the 31st ult. a company of the New York Zouaves was sent to take possession of an old mill two or three miles from Alexandria, and a party of Virginia troops lying in ambush fired upon them, killing one of the Zouaves and wounding another. The Zouaves returned the fire, though with probably little, if any, effect, as they could not see the enemy.
               RICHMOND, VIRGINIA.
               The Southern Congress will meet on the 20th of July next at Richmond, Virginia, the principal city of the Old Dominion, and which for the time being takes rank as the capital of the Confederate States of America. This city and river port is situated on the north bank, James River, at its lower falls, 150 miles above its mouth. Richmond lies on the opposite side of the river, with which it is
               New York Fireman Zouaves Turning out to Support Pickets between Alexandria and Fairfax Courthouse, Virginia.—From a Sketch by our Special Artist.
               The Civil War in America: View of Richmond, the Capital of Virginia.
               connected by two bridges. Vessels drawing ten feet water come up to Rockets, one mile below the city; and the river above, by the aid of a canal, is navigable for boats for 220 miles. The commerce of Richmond in ordinary times is considerable, it being the natural dépôt of a large extent of country. It has manufactures of machinery, cotton stuffs, tobacco, and pepper; various forges, a cannon-foundry, and corn and saw mills. Its principle edifices are the Capitol, in a spacious square, with a statue of Washington; the Government House, county court-house, State penitentiary, city gaol, Virginian armoury, an orphan asylum, theatre, museums, masonic hall, numerous churches, a college, and various schools and public libraries. The population of Richmond is about 30,000.

            