
               Foreign and Colonial News
               
               FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
               The latest news from America throws no light on the obscurity of President Lincoln's movements, or rather inaction. The Cabinet was still considering what course should be pursued towards the Confederated States. The commissioners from the latter remained at Washington, but had not been recognised by the President. Both parties were making vast preparations for a contest, the probabilities of which every day seem to lessen, though no one can divine how an arrangement will be effected. Fort Sumter had not been evacuated, but the Cabinet, it was reported, had arranged for its cession, as well as for that of Fort Pickens. The Government have also determined not to attempt to collect the revenue in the Gulf ports. Everything tends to show that Mr. Lincoln will not resort as yet, if at all, to hostile proceedings against the disunionists. The Louisiana Convention is expected to declare in favour of free trade between the Western States and the Southern Confederacy. Confusion and lawlessness seem to be spreading from the Atlantic to the Pacific States; for it is said that a body of filibusters has invaded lower California.
               The following are the main points of difference between the United States Constitution and the new Southern Constitution, or rather these are the additions made by the South, which in other respects has largely copied the old Constitution:—
               1, That African slavery in the Territories shall be recognised and protected by Congress and the Territorial Legislatures. 2, That the right to slaveholders of transit and sojourn in any State of the Confederacy, with their slaves and other property, shall be recognised and respected. 3, That the provision in regard to fugitive slaves shall extend to any slave lawfully carried from one State into another, and there escaping or taken away from his master. 4, That no bill or ex post facto law (by Congress or any State), and no law impairing or denying the right of property in negro slaves, shall be passed. 5, That the African slave trade shall be prohibited by such laws of Congress as shall effectually prevent the same. 6, The absolute prohibition of all bounties from the Federal Treasury, and all duties or taxes on imported goods intended to promote or foster any branch of home industry. 7, A positive prohibition of Federal appropriations for internal improvements, and the substitution of local tonnage duties for such improvements. 8, The restriction of Congress by a majority vote to such appropriations as may be recommended by the President or some executive department, all other appropriations requiring a two-thirds vote. 9, The holding of contractors to the strict letter of their contracts. 10, That the Post-office department shall pay its own expenses.

            