
Foreign and Colonial News
  

The New York Post says the Wall-street bankers on the 9th subscribed the full amount of a five-million loan in forty minutes.

THE CIVIL WAR IN AMERICA.

By the arrival of the North Briton at Londonderry we have telegrams to the 20th ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS ON SEA AND LAND.

Major-General M'Clellan has won a succession of victories over the Confederates in Western Virginia, which enables him to report that he firmly believes Secession is killed in that section of the country. On the 12th a division of Federals, led by General Rosencrantz, drove the enemy from an intrenched camp at Rich Mountain, near Beverley. On the 13th General M'Clellan pushed on to Beverely, and captured six brass cannon, of which one was rifled, and all the camp equipage and transportation waggons. The enemy lost in killed and wounded 150 men, and at least 100 prisoners. The Federals lost in this second engagement 11 killed and 35 wounded. On the same day General M'Clellan received from Colonel Pegrain (not Pogram) propositions for the surrender of his whole command, numbering 600 men.

On the next day, the 14th, General Garnett and his forces were routed at Carrackford, near St George, and his baggage and one gun taken. General Garnett was killed in the engagement. The Confederate loss was not far from 200 killed and a number of prisoners. The Federals report a loss of 13 killed and 40 wounded. The troops engaged in these affairs were chiefly from Ohio and Indiana.

The main body of the Federal Army of the centre, numbering 55,000 men, and commanded by General M'Dowell, began its march towards Richmond on the 17th ult. They met with no serious resistance until they reached Dulbram, a fortified position, three miles from Manassas Junction. On the 18th the advanced guard of the Federals attacked this position and was repulsed. Afterwards, however, the position was carried. At the last accounts the two armies were within a mile of each other near Manassas Junction, and a battle seemed inevitable on the next day (Sunday) or Monday, the 22nd ult.

General Patterson, who was last heard of at Martinsburg, has been superseded by Major-General Banks. General Dix succeeds General Banks in command at Baltimore.

The Federal Government has decided that no more fugitive slaves shall be allowed in camp.

In Missouri Colonel Siegel has gained another advantage over the State troops.

The Confederate privateer Sumpter, which escaped from New Orleans, made for Cuba, where she seized eight Northern vessels, six of which were run into Cienfuegos and one was burned. The Governor-General of Cuba allowed the privateer to coal and water, but retained the prizes. One of them which had been sent home under a prize crew was taken into a Northern port, the crew revolting and being unwilling to return to the Sumpter. Two of this crew were Englishmen.

Galveston, Texas, was blockaded on the 2nd ult.

WASHINGTON.

The opposition to the war party in Congress never divides more than ten in the House of Representatives, and not above half that number in the Senate. Four Northern Democrats only adhere to the cause of peaceable separation. The chief speakers against the war in the Senate are—Mr. Breckenridge, of Kentucky, and in the House Messrs. Burnett, of the same State, and Vallandingham, of Ohio.

Messrs. Carlile and Wiley, of Western Virginia, have been admitted to seats in the Senate, as lawfully representing Virginia, in lieu of Messrs. Hunter and Mason, expelled for treasonable conduct.

The military authorities exercise a censorship over the telegrams sent by correspondents at Washington to the Northern press, and will not let anything pass the knowledge of which may be of service to the enemy.

The Secretary of the Treasury raised 5,000,000 dols. in Treasury notes, at par, in the New York money market in forty minutes; the energetic course of the Government in suppressing the revolution having infused new confidence into the capitalists.

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.

The eighty-fifth anniversary of American Independence was observed with the usual éclat throughout the South.

Vice-President Stephens is delivering public harangues in the Gulf States in behalf of the produce loan of the Southern Government.

The usual mail facilities are still extended to the people of East Tennessee by the Federal Government in consideration of their loyalty.

THE NORTHERN STATES.

There is much suffering among the working classes and the families of the volunteers in New York, Philadelphia, and St. Louis. In New York the Common Council have voted 500,000 dols. towards the relief of the needy.

The particulars of the accident which proved fatal to Mrs. Longfellow are as follow:—She was engaged in making wax seals in the library for the amusement of her two youngest children, when her dress caught fire from a match with which she was melting the wax. She had on a light summer dress, which was all in flames in a moment. Mr. Longfellow, who was in his study near by, ran to her assistance, and succeeded in extinguishing the flames, with considerable injury to himself, but too late to save the life of his wife. She was the daughter of the Hon. Nathan Appleton, of Boston, and leaves a family of five children—three of them daughters and two sons.

The trade returns of the port of New York show to what an extent the import trade of that port has suffered in consequence of the war. For the week ending July 13 there were imported of dry goods only 226,388 dols. worth, against 1,776,456 dols. for the corresponding week of last year, and 2,630,240 dols. in 1859.

