
The Civil War in America
   

By the North German Lloyd's steam-ship Bremen we have received New York journals to the 31st ult.
BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.
	  The most important movement of which we have received intelligence since our last is the departure of a naval expediton from Fortress Monroe, commanded by Commadore Stringham. The squadron numbers 100 guns, and carries 4000 men, commanded by General Butler. The only avowed object of the expedition is to block up the inlets to the outer bar of the coast of North Carolina, and thus deprive privateers of their favourite places of refuge. But it is presumed that the unguarded Southern coast will be attacked at some point. We shall soon hear where the blow has fallen.
	  In Western Virginina a slight encounter has taken place, near Summersville, in Nicholas county. The 7th Ohio Regiment was surprised by a body of Confederates, and cut their way through with the loss of fifteen killed and forty wounded. A large number were scattered during the flight, and are missing.
	  In Missouri General Fremont has proclaimed martial law and emancipation to the slaves of Secessionist slaveholders. The State rights men have captured 100,000 dollars at Lafayette, in this State.
	  Advices from Texas state that Fort Staunton has been abandoned and fired by the Union forces.
	  There is nothing new from the armies commanded by Generals M'Clellan and Banks respectively.
	  The Federal loss at Dug Spring, where General Lyon was killed, is officially announced as having been—killed, 223; wounded. 721; missing, 291. This out of a total of 5500 men engaged.

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.
	  Two vessels had arrived at Matanzas, Cuba, from Charleston, having succeeded in running the blockade.
	  The Richmond papers complain that an opposition to Mr. Davis's Admininstration has been formed in the Confederate Congress; but, as all the proceedings of this body are done in secret session, we do not know what the platform of the Opposition is.
	  Governor Brown, of Georgia, has issued an address to the Georgians denouncing Mr. Davis's Administration for its centralising monarchical tendencies, and warning them to cherish the main principle of the Revolution of 1861—that of State rights and a weak central authority.
	  TheVicksburg Whig advertises the manufacture of cotton-seed oil for burning, the blockade having deprived the Mississipians of material for light.

KENTUCKY.
	  President Lincoln has determined not to recognise the neutrality of Kentucky, but is willing to await the action of the State Legislature before forcing the State to declare its position.
	  The express companies are forbidden to carry letters to the Southern States through Kentucky. Thus these States are now completely cut off from regular communication with the outer world.

ARMY NEWS.
	  Two hundred and sixty-one volunteer officers have resigned since the defeat at Bull Run.
	  Several solders claimed by Lord Lyons had been discharged from the army.
	  Not over half of the 25,000 additional volunteers called for by the recent proclamation of the Governor of New York have as yet enlisted.
	  The Philadelphia Press advertises a list of 400 names, signed by the Governor of the State, who had registered themselves as volunteers, but who afterwards refused to take the oath for three years' service.

THE NORTHERN STATES.
	  The Union Defence Committee of New York have published a statement of the expenditure of 1,000,000 dols. placed at their disposal by the City Government. 531,709 dols. were expended in "aid to regiments;" 226,589 dols. in arms and ammunition, and 230,000 dols. in aid of the famlies of soldiers, leaving a small balance in their hands.
	  The revenue to be raised in the city of New York for municipal purposes only, for the present year, is 11,390,040 dols.
	  The mobbing of obnoxious peace papers continues. The office of the New York Daily News is protected by a large body of police. But the Government refuses to allow it or any other journal of similar politics to go by post, while United States' marshals seize the bundles which are sent by private express companies. Peace meetings are broken up by the Unionists; but in one instance, in Connecticut, the Unionist mob was beaten back by the partisans of peace. The peace flag is a white one, and the war journals dub the movement "the showing of the white feather."
	  Captain T.F. Meagher has addressed a large meeting of Irishmen in New York, exhorting them to support the war and crush the revolution, because it was favoured by the English aristocracy.

GARIBALDI ON THE WAR.
	  A report having got abroad in both worlds that the Italian liberator was about to take service in the Federal Army, the Washington correspondent of the Philadelphia Press contradicts it as follows:—
	  There is no truth in the reports that Garibaldi proposes to help us out of our troubles. A gentleman here, personally acquainted with Garibaldi and his son, received a letter from the latter a few days ago, in which the son says he desired himself to come out and take part in the struggle now going on here for liberty, and that his father objected, on the ground that ours was a family quarrel, and could be settled more easily without foreign interference than with it, and that it was based upon a political question in which the nations were not interested, and in the settlement of which they could not become parties. These are now the views and sentiments of Garibaldi as expressed by his son in private correspondence of very late date.

FINANCE.
	  The subscriptions for the new National Loan at the Sub-Treasury in New York amount to 1,350,000 dollars, in amounts varying from 50 dollars to 10,000 dollars each. This does not include the large negotiations that have beeen going on between the banks and parties in various parts of the country. The notes are not yet ready for issue. The New York Tribune is of opinion that Englishmen will not be able to resist the temptation of 7.30 per cent interest.
	