
               Foreign and Colonial News
               
               FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.THE UNITED STATES.
               The Senate's Committee on foreign relations has recommended that the dispute between the United States and Great Britain respecting the sovereignty of the island of San Juan shall be referred to the arbitration of Switzerland.
               President Lincoln has returned no reply to the Southern Commissioners. His Administration, it is stated, are still labouring in the interests of peace; and it was even said that Messrs. Seward and Chase, the two most influential members of the Cabinet, were disposed to favour a peaceful separation, as the most practicable solution of the existing difficulties.
               The following gentlemen have been appointed United States' representatives abroad:—Charles Francis Adams, Minister to England; William L. Dayton, Minister to France; N.P. Judd, Minister to Prussia; George P. Marsh, Minister to Sardinia; James Watson Webb, Minister to Turkey; Jacob T. Holderman, Minister to Sweden; W.S. Thayer, Consul-General to Alexandria. Mr. Adams is grandson of the first Ambassador from the United States to this country; and Mr. Dayton was the nominee of the Republican party for the Vice-Presidency in 1856.
               North Carolina has voted against the holding of a Convention by a majority of 1200.
               THE CONFEDERATE STATES.
               The Government of the Southern Confederacy has appointed the Hon. William Yansey, of Alabama; Judge Rost, of Louisiana; Colonel Mann, and Mr. Botler King, of Georgia, as Special Commissioners to proceed to England and France for the purpose of obtaining the recognition of the independence of the Confederated States, and to make such commercial arrangements as their joint interests may require.
               The Congress at Montgomery has adjourned until May without agreeing upon the tariff.
               The citizens of Louisiana, through their State Convention, have rejected the proposed Constitution.
               We hear, although no authority is vouchsafed, that the Customs authorities at Havre have notified that ships from the seceded States would be received on the same footing as those sailing under the "stars and stripes."
               The design of the flag recently adopted by the Southern Congress is as follows:—Red, white, and red, in three equal parts, horizontally placed—the white between the red; blue union, with seven stars in the form of a circle reaching down to the lower red.

            