
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Hibernia we have news from New York to the afternoon of Dec. 24.
General Hood's defeated army succeeded in crossing the Duck river, in spite of General Thomas's hot pursuit. On the 20th ult. Hood was joined at Columbia by Forrest; and on the 22nd he had reached Pulaski, seventy-five miles south of Nashville, still closely pressed by the Federal cavalry. The Federal accounts estimate Hood's losses at 17,000 men, killed, wounded, and taken prisoners; and represent Thomas's losses not to have exceeded 5000 men.
General Sherman reports on the 13th ult., from Ossibau [i.e., ossabaw] Sound, that he had captured Fort M'Allister, opened communication with the fleet, destroyed the railroads leading to Savannah, and invested the city. His left rested on the Savannah River, three miles above the city, and his right on the Ogeechee River, at King's Bridge. He had an agreeable and unmolested march. His army was in splendid order, and amply supplied with provisions. During his march of 300 miles Sherman only lost about 1000 men, and he arrived in front of Savannah with more stores, provisions, and horses than he started with. About 700 negroes joined him on the route. He destroyed 200 miles of railroad. He estimates the garrison of Savannah, under Hardee, at 15,000, with about 25,000 inhabitants. According to Confederate despatches "all was well" at Savannah to the 19th ult.; and there was no further intelligence respecting the progress of General Sherman's operations. A letter from Admiral Dahlgren states that he is buoying the Savannah River for an attack on the city in conjunction with other forces.
The Southern journals alleged that General Breckenridge had defeated the Federal General Burbridge, in the neighbourhood of Saltville, in Western Virginia.
Admiral Porter's whole fleet was reported by a Confederate telegram to have been in sight from Fort Fisher, near Wilmington, on the 21st ult.; and the Confederate commander, General Bragg, added in his despatch a confident declaration that he could hold Wilmington. It was said that Porter's fleet had been crippled by a storm, and no immediate attack on Wilmington was expected.
Advices received at New York state that, the exchange of prisoners at Charleston being ended, the bombardment of the city will be immediately recommenced.
The Federal gun-boat Narcissus has been blown up by a torpedo at Mobile.
Mr. Lincoln has cancelled General Dix's order as to the pursuit of raiders across the frontier into Canada. Some of the New York papers complain of this. In Congress it had been moved to prepare an armed force for the Lakes.
A draught of 300,000 men has been ordered. All absentees are also ordered to rejoin their regiments immediately.
Secretary Fessenden is about to contract a new loan of 100,000,000 dollars.
Mr. Seward has ordered that persons coming to the United States, except immigrants, must have passports. This regulation applies specially to persons coming from the British provinces.
Both branches of the Federal Congress had adjourned to the 5th inst.
Gold was quoted at New York, on the afternoon of the 24th ult., at 220¾.
In the Southern Congress there have been some noteworthy movements. First, a resolution has been introduced to send commissioners to treat with Federal commissioners upon the restoration of peace. Mr. Foote, a member of the Confederate Senate, made a speech, in which he declared the Confederacy to be on the verge of ruin, and blamed Jefferson Davis for all the late military disasters. Mr. Foote afterwards withdrew from the Senate. The Richmond Enquirer says that General Lee is in favour of arming the negroes. The same paper declares that if independence can only be attained by the sacrifice of slavery that sacrifice must be made.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Canadian Parliament is summoned to meet on the 19th inst.
A proclamation has been issued by the Governor-General of Canada calling out a large force of volunteer militia to prevent raids from Canada into the United States, and to maintain order on the frontier. Thirty companies of Canadian volunteers have been sent to the frontier.
Three of the St. Albans raiders have been recaptured. The discharge of the raiders by Judge Coursal is condemned by both the Government and rebel newspaper organs in Canada, and the majority of the people appear to be indignant at the critical condition in which the relations between the Northern States and the provinces have been placed by it. Mr. Lamothe, the chief of the Montreal police, had resigned, it was supposed, to avoid dismissal. The bankers and merchants of Montreal had addressed a memorial to the Governor-General setting forth their desire that a fair and honest neutrality should be maintained between the belligerent States of America....