
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The Columbia brings news from New York to the evening of Jan. 29.
The most important fact mentioned is the near approach of General Longstreet, reinforced by 20,000 men, to Knoxville. Skirmishing between his cavalry and the Federal outposts had commenced, and the latest accounts state that great anxiety, amounting to a panic, prevailed in the city.
The Confederates had made two separate attacks on Athens and Florence, in Alabama, in both of which they are said to have failed.
Despatches from Chattanooga report that the Confederate General Johnston had fallen back forty miles south of Dalton.
The Federal batteries continued to throw shells into Charleston; and it was reported that half the city had been abandoned by the inhabitants.
General Butler reports that he had sent three transports and a competent force up the James River, which landed seven miles below Fort Powhattan and captured twenty Confederates, seven of whom belonged to the signal corps, and brought away ninety negroes, besides destroying large stores.
Re-enlistments in the Federal army are very numerous. Throughout the West several entire corps have re-enlisted.
The trade of the Mississippi is still interrupted--indeed, almost suspended--by the Confederate batteries.
Mr. Lincoln has been nominated by the Republican members of the New Jersey Legislature for the presidency.
The delegates to the State Convention held at Little Rock, Arkansas, have adopted a resolution prohibiting slavery.
In Congress the Senate has passed a resolution requiring members to take the oath. Senator Bayard took the oath, and announced his intention of retiring into private life. The Judiciary Committee of the Senate has discharged from consideration the resolution to expel Mr. Davis, of Kentucky, from the Senate. Senator Hale urges the appointment of a committee to investigate the affairs of the Navy Department, and proved statistically that the United States were called upon to spend this year for the navy more than the combined annual naval expenses of all the European Powers, excluding Denmark and Italy, and forty millions more than the naval expenses of France and England during the three years and five months of the Crimean War.
Mr. Fernando Wood has spoken strongly in the House of Representatives in favour of peace, declaring that the Administration opposed the restoration of the Union and favoured the continuance of the war for partisan advantage. He said that the most damnable deeds were perpetrated under the plea of patriotism.