
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steam-ship City of New York we have received telegrams to the evening of the 16th inst.

War News.

The Confederates under Jackson are entering Pennsylvania. Their advanced guard is at Green Castle, Pennsylvania. The Governor has called for 50,000 men to resist invasion, and has telegraphed to the Mayor of Philadelphia to raise and forward 20,000 men without delay. The farmers are arming, and sending the women and children away. The city of Philadelphia has appropriated 500,000 dollars for the defence of the city and State.

The Confederates are recruiting in Maryland.

General Lee has issued a proclamation to the people of Maryland announcing that the Confederate army has come to liberate them from Federal rule, and stating that it is for them to decide their destiny without restraint. The Southern people, says the proclamation, "will rejoice to welcome the people of Maryland, but will only welcome them when they come of their own free will. Mr. Enoch Lowe, a Marylander, has received the appointment of Provisional Governor of Maryland in the interest of the Confederate States.

On the Potomac the Confederates occupy in force the west bank of Seneca Creek, from its mouth on the Potomac, twenty-two miles above Washington, to Middle Brook Mills, a line of ten miles. It is certain that they have been driven out of Poolesville, in Maryland, by a body of Federal cavalry. General M'Clellan has left Washington with a Federal army, and has occupied Damascus and Hagerstown, in Western Maryland. The former place is thirty-four miles from Washington. General Burnside is operating in another direction.

The Governor of Maryland has issued an order to the citizens calling upon them to organise and resist the invasion. Commodore Porter's mortar fleet is off Baltimore, in a position to destroy the city if surrendered to the Confederates. General Banks is intrusted with the command at Washington. The Federals are surrounded at Harper's Ferry: 1600 cavalry have escaped, but it is supposed that the remainder of the Federal force stationed there will be compelled to surrender. The Confederates have again advanced towards Cincinnati, driving in the Federal pickets two miles north of Florence. General M'Dowell has been relieved from his command and granted three week's leave of absence. He has demanded a court of inquiry into the charges of treason made against him.

Twelve hundred Confederates attacked Washington, North Carolina, on the 6th, but were repulsed and pursued several miles. The Federal gun-boats assisted in driving them off. One gun-boat blew up, killing the Captain and nineteen men.

In the West the Confederates had advanced within five miles of Covington, in the northern apex of Kentucky.

A correspondent from Port Royal, in South Carolina, announces that the President has adopted General Hunter's policy towards the negroes, and that five negro regiments are to be raised, armed, and uniformed for the service of the United States, and that 50,000 in addition are to be employed in the Quartermaster's department, nominally as labourers, but organised into companies and uniformed.

President Davis had ordered a day of thanksgiving for the late Confederate victories. A bill had been introduced into the Confederate Congress calling upon the States for 300,000 additional troops. General Beauregard has been appointed to command the department of South Carolina.

General Pope's report of the movements of the army, from the command of which he has lately been removed, is an extraordinary one. He blames Generals Fitz-John Porter and Siegel for not coming to his assistance. Of General Griffin he says that he kept his brigade off the field of battle, though in full view of the engagement, "spending the day in making ill-natured strictures upon the General commanding the action in the presence of a promiscuous assemblage:"-- I do not hesitate to say that if the corps of Porter had attacked the enemy in flank on the afternoon of Friday, as he had my written order to do, we should utterly have crushed Jackson before the forces under Lee could have reached him. Why he did not do so I cannot understand.

He charges that the answer of General M'Clellan to his request for rations and forage--an answer which laid down the condition that a cavalry escort was to be furnished by General Pope--was a mockery:-- All hope of being able to maintain my position, whether victorious or not, vanished with this letter. My cavalry was utterly broken down by long and constant service in the pursuit of the enemy, and, bad as they were, could not be spared from the front.

The Federal loss in artillery in the recent battles in Virginia, was more than thirty pieces. No batteries were taken from the Confederates.
On evacuating Bâton Rouge, the Federals carried off the State library, the State-house pictures, the statue of Washington, and a number of contrabands.

Commodore Wilkes had been ordered to take command of a flying squadron on the West India station.

The Cuban authorities have ordered the Confederate Steamer Oreto away from Havannah.

General Fremont has accepted the offer of the New York War Committee to raise 50,000 men; but the Secretary of War has refused to grant permission to the War Committee to raise troops for Fremont.

Two hundred men have been draughted at Hartford, Connecticut. Disturbances have occurred at Newton, Connecticut, arising from the enforcement of the draught.

Miscellaneous.

The enrolment for the draught being far advanced towards completion, the stringent war orders in reference to arrests for discouraging enlistments have been withdrawn. The recent restrictions on travel have been removed.

The Indians in Western Minnesota had attacked Fort Ridgeley. They were compelled to retreat after inflicting a loss of 13 killed and 47 wounded on the United States' troops. The Indians of the territory of Dakotah were in an unsettled state, and likely to rise against the whites.

Notwithstanding that the new tariff been in operation for five weeks, the imports of dry goods and general merchandise at New York are higher than at the corresponding period of 1860 and 1861. A commercial authority says:-- People are consuming as many foreign goods as ever, notwithstanding the increase in the price. Buyers of imported goods--viz., silks, laces, French muslins, British woollens, hardware, &c., are now paying, in addition to the old price, a large percentage for the new duty and another large percentage for the premium on specie; yet, in spite of this, the importers state that the...
The election in Maine has resulted favourably to the Republicans, but with majorities much lower than those of last year.
jobbers are prepared to buy freely. Leading articles of dry goods and general merchandise have risen 50 to 75 per cent within a year, yet the public have scarcely curtailed their consumption in any perceptible degree.

California.
The Supreme Court of the State has decided that all State taxes must continue to be paid in gold, according to a State statute to that effect. The law of Congress which makes the Federal notes a legal tender for the payment of all debts is held not to apply to the case of a tax, which is not technically a "debt." In consequence of this decision the Federal notes are at 15 per cent discount in San Francisco. This decision is popular in a State whose pride it has hitherto been to have done without a representative currency of any kind.
The Californians have dispatched 11,000 dols. for the relief of the suffering poor in Ireland. The elections have gone in favour of the Union Republicans and adversely to the Democrats.