
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
America.
By the arrival of the Etna from New York we have telegrams from Cape Race to the evening of the 12th inst.
War News.

A reconnaissance in force was made from General M'Clellan's army to Malvern Hill and Newmarket, within ten miles of Richmond. At the former place two Confederate regiments and a battery were encountered, but they fled after a slight engagement, leaving 100 prisoners. At Newmarket the Federals retired before two Confederate brigades. The next day the Confederates moved down in force upon Malvern Hill, and the Federals retired on their old positions. Fifteen hundred Federals have been thrown across the James River, preparatory, it is conjectured, to an attack upon Fort Darling.

General Burnside's whole command has been transferred from Fortress Monroe to the Potomac, where it landed at Acquia Creek, and had advanced, by last accounts, to Fredericksburg.

Severe fighting had taken place in the Virginia Valley. General Jackson, having crossed the Rapidan, was met by General Pope. A conflict ensued about a mile and a half from Cedar Mountain. It lasted from three o'clock till dark, with what result is not clear from the telegrams, which give two opposite versions of it. Both accounts agree that the Federals lost one gun, and that both parties fell back from the battle-field, General Jackson having recrossed the Rapidan under cover of the night.

General Pope's troops were committing great havoc in the Virginia Valley. President Davis had issued a proclamation, charging him with changing war "into indiscriminate robbery and murder." He therefore orders, that if Pope or any commissioned officer of his command be captured, they shall not be treated as prisoners of war, but be held in close confinement. In the event of the murder of an unarmed citizen of the Confederate States reprisals will be taken on a commissioned officer of Pope's command. The above regulations are applicable only to the commissioned officers of Pope's command.

From the West there is a tedious recital of guerrilla attacks and movements of small bodies of regulars. The guerrillas have made their appearance so far north as Missouri. The Federal General McCook had been shot by guerrillas in Alabama while travelling in an ambulance. The Federals devastated the neighbourhood and hanged several of the inhabitants in retaliation for the murder of their General.

The Confederate ram Arkansas has been blown up on the Mississippi, but whether by her owners, by accident, or by her assailants is as yet uncertain.

Pestilence was reported as raging in Richmond, where hundreds were dying daily. Yellow fever was active among the Federals at Key West, in Florida. A vessel had arrived at Boston with thirty patients on board.

A new outrage on the British flag had been committed by an officer of the Federal Navy. The British steamer Herald issued from the harbour of Charleston with a cargo of cotton. She was chased by the Federal steamer Adirondac to within two miles of the harbour of Nassau, New Providence, shot and shell being thrown at her all the way. The Herald entered Nassau in safety. The captain of the British steamer Greyhound had an interview with the Federal captain, and protested against the act. The matter is referred to the Governments on either side.

The conscription causes much excitement. In Indiana a secret society, numbering several thousands of adherents, has been discovered. It aims at preventing enlistments and resisting taxation. The consulates in the large cities are crowded with applicants for exemption-papers. The rush of Irishmen at the British consulate in New York was so great that the police had to clear the office. The Secretary of War had issued an order that no citizen liable to be draughted into the militia shall be allowed to go to a foreign country. The Federal officials at the ports, seaboard and frontiers, will arrest such persons, who will be taken to the nearest military post and placed on military duty for the term of draught. The writ of habeas corpus is suspended as to all such. On the 9th many passengers were arrested by the police on board of the European steamers. Some were disguised as sailors and stoutly resisted. The Government telegraphed that these who had purchased tickets previous to the issue of the order might proceed on their voyage. The same system of police visits has been pursued on board the Californian steamers. Persons liable to militia duty can only emigrate to California by giving bonds for 1000 dollars to provide a substitute, if draughted.

Miscellaneous.
A large war meeting had been held at Washington, at which the President made a speech. He denied that there was any quarrel between General M'Clellan and Secretary Stanton. He indorsed the character of Mr. Stanton for bravery and ability, and he came forward to take upon himself the odium of the charges made against him. At this meeting ex-Governor Bontwell, of Massachusetts, made an abolition speech.

The anniversary of the emancipation of the negroes in the British West Indies was celebrated by the coloured people throughout the Northern States with the usual festivities. The Irish in the large cities have of late conducted themselves riotously towards the free negroes. They have resisted their employment as stevedores and in factories. A very aggravated outrage occurred in Brooklyn, where a tobacco factory, filled with coloured women and children chiefly, was attacked and set on fire. But for the exertions of the police in extinguishing the flames, made while the mob were pelting them with missiles, all the factory hands would have perished.

The New York Times, apropos of Lord Palmerston's speech on Mr. Lindsay's motion, is candid enough to tell its readers that "the British Government deserves the praise of having held to the obligations of neutrality under conditions such as never before urged a people to their violation."

The steamer Golden Gate, which left San Francisco on the 21st ult. for Panama, was burnt to the water's edge on the 27th ult., off Manzanilla. When the fire was discovered she was only three miles and a half from the shore. The steamer struck the beach soon after the upper deck fell, and the passengers and crew jumped overboard to swim ashore. Out of 330 persons about 100 were saved. The specie lost in her amounted to over 1,000,000 dols.
Canada.
...The captain and crew of an American steamer have been arrested at Toronto for inducing British soldiers to desert. The steamer had conveyed several soldiers of the 30th Regiment to Oswego during the previous month.
