
Obsequies of President Lincoln at Washington and New York

OBSEQUIES OF PRESIDENT LINCOLNAt Washington And New York.
The funeral of the late President Lincoln, as we have already reported, commenced on the 19th ult. The body had lain in state under the dome of the Capitol in Washington and had been visited by thousands of people. The members of the Cabinet, with other friends of the deceased, assembled at six o'clock in the morning on the 19th, and, after a brief religious service, the coffin was taken from the catafalque and placed in the hearse which was waiting to receive it in front of the Capitol. The procession was then formed, and escorted the remains to the dépôt of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, in New Jersey-avenue, where a special train had been prepared for their conveyance. In front of the procession marched the Veteran Reserve Corps, under command of Lieutenant-Colonel Bell; following them came the hearse with the coffin, beside which was a guard of honour composed of a detail of twelve orderly sergeants from the Veteran Reserve Corps, under the command of Captain J. M. M'Camley of the 9th, and Lieutenants J. R. Durkee of the 7th, E. Hoppy of the 12th, and E. Murphy of the 10th Regiment Veteran Reserve Corps. Immediately following the hearse, on foot, came Lieutenant-General Grant, Brigadier-General Hardie, Brigadier-Generals Barnard, Rucker, Ekin, Howe, Eaton, Townsend, and M'Callum, and Major-Generals Hunter and Meigs, Admiral Davis and Captain W. R. Taylor of the navy, and Major Field of the marine corps. Behind them were several carriages, in which were Secretaries Stanton, Welles, and M'Culloch; Postmaster-General Denison and Attorney-General Speed; Major B. B. French, Commissioner of Public Buildings; Commissioners Dole, of the Indian Bureau; Holloway, of the Patent Bureau; Captain Newman, of the Capitol Police; Governor Oglesby, Senator Yates, and ex-Senator Browning, of Illinois; the Illinois delegation, which took charge of the remains on behalf of that State; and a number of other senators and members of Congress. President Johnson's carriage was in the procession, accompanied by the President's body-guard, mounted, which closed the procession. The coffin was carried into the dépôt, followed by the gentlemen before mentioned, civil and military, and deposited in the car which had been prepared for its reception. A prayer was repeated by the Rev. Dr. Gurley; and the train, decked with funeral trappings, started from Washington at eight o'clock. It arrived at Baltimore about ten, when the coffin was borne to the Exchange, and lay there in state till the next day. The same ceremony took place at Harrisburg and Philadelphia on the two following days.
On Monday, the 24th ult., the funeral arrived at New York. A correspondent in that city, from whose sketch one of our Illustrations is engraved, describes the scene as follows:--
"The remains were escorted from the railway station by the favourite regiment of New York, the 7th. The funeral car in which the body was conveyed was decorated with eight black-and-white plumes and draped with the national flag. It was drawn by six grey horses, heavily draped and plumed, and led by soldiers. The street through which the cortége passed were lined with dense crowds of people, representing all classes of society and creeds of politics; for, whatever differences of opinion might have existed with regard to Abraham Lincoln while living and holding the reins of Government in his hands, they are all merged now in sorrow for his untimely fate, and detestation of the assassin who has brought the nation to this great grief. As soon as the body had been carried into the City Hall and placed upon the catafalque prepared for its reception, a solemn dirge burst forth from a choir of 900 Germans, who, dressed in black and with their heads uncovered, were ranged in close array upon each side of the steps leading up to the City Hall, the space in front of which was kept clear by a strong force of policemen and by detachments of the 8th Regiment. Outside this cordon the crowd was immense, but, like, most American crowds, quite orderly. From noon yesterday until noon to-day the body lay in state in the Rotunda of the City Hall, within a lofty catafalque erected at the head of the stairway leading to the Governor's Room. The coffin was placed in a sloping position beneath the canopy, the upper part of it being open, so as to display the features of the murdered Chief Magistrate. A guard of honour, composed of officers of the army and navy, remained in constant attendance near the body. All day long and all night a silent procession of citizens--men and women, old and young, rich and poor--moved past the coffin in single file, winding up the stairs on one side and down by the other. Many floral tributes were laid upon the coffin, some of them composed of camellias and other rare flowers. On the afternoon of the second day (the 25th) the remains left New York, by way of Albany and Buffalo. They arrive at Springfield, Illinois, on the afternoon of the 31st, and will be interred there with all possible honours."