
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA. 
The steamer City of Baltimore brings news from New York to the 30th ult. At that date neither General Lee nor General Grant had made any movement. General Lee was being strongly reinforced from all quarters, and General Burnside was preparing to co-operate with General Grant. General Longstreet is reported to have taken up a position on the left of Lee's army.
The defeat sustained by the Red River expedition was admitted to have been more disastrous than the first accounts represented it to be; for it was stated that General Banks had lost 4000 prisoners, thirty guns, a gun-boat, and 1,000,000 dols. in "greenbacks." The Confederates were reported to be marching upon Grand Ecore, where his troops were strongly intrenched.
The Confederates have achieved a success in North Carolina. On the 20th of April General Hoke assaulted Plymouth, and captured it with 1500 prisoners and thirty guns. It was said that the Confederates repeated their Fort Pillow brutalities, and massacred 150 negro soldiers after they had surrendered.
Among the miscellaneous items of news, it may be chronicled that President Lincoln has accepted the offer of the Governors of Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, and Iowa, to furnish 100,000 volunteers for a hundred days for fortification and frontier duty.
The import duties have been increased 50 per cent for sixty days.
A "draught" of 8850 men had been ordered to take place on the 3rd of May, in the State of New Jersey.
The Senate of the State of New York had refused to take into consideration Governor Seymour's remonstrance against the resolution that the interest of the State debt shall be paid in "greenbacks."
The price of gold was greatly and constantly fluctuating in New York; but the latest quotation was 79 per cent premium.
After a prosperous existence of three weeks, the Great Sanitary Fair at New York, for the benefit of the wounded soldiers and of the widows and children of the slain, was brought to a close on the 23rd of April. The receipts were nearly 1,100,000 dols.
The American papers record the death of Mr. G. T. Ticknor, the famous Boston publisher.
A letter from Nassau states that between November, 1861, and March 10, 1864, 425 attempts were made from that port alone to run the blockade, and that 363 of these adventures proved successful.