
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
The President has pardoned ex-Governor Brown, of Georgia. He has written a letter approving of the formation of militia companies throughout Mississippi, and expressing his opinion that the people should be trusted with their own government.
Mr. Davis's health continues to improve.
There is a very unsettled state of affairs in the south, especially in Mississippi, where there was a constant clashing of the military and civil authorities. There was a general feeling of uneasiness arising from the fear of a rising of the freed blacks.
The New York Democratic State Convention has passed resolutions denouncing military rule and negro suffrage and claiming the equality of the States. The resolutions also indorse President Johnson's reconstruction policy, state the obligation upon the country for the payment of the national debt, and support the Monroe doctrine.
It is stated that at a Cabinet Council held at Washington on the Mexican question all the Ministers but one were in favour of the statu quo. President Johnson said he would reserve for his message to Congress the expression of the policy he intended to pursue on the question.
President Johnson had made a speech declaring the policy of the States to be the maintenance of Republicanism, and, by peaceful means, the establishment of free institutions throughout the American Continent.
The Wirtz trial, after an adjournment of several days, has been resumed. Several coloured witnesses have been examined, and additional evidence has been taken as to barbarities practised upon prisoners by Captain Wirtz. One witness swore that Wirtz killed a boy by striking him on the head with a pistol; another that Wirtz had punished prisoners attempting to escape with severe whipping, ball and chain, and hard labour.
The grand jury has found eleven indictments for forgery in the third degree against Ketchum--one being for grand larceny.
The New York Times says that the public sentiment, except among the Irish element, though disapproving England's course during the rebellion, decidedly opposes war.
Mr. and Mrs. Kean have been playing to crowded houses at the Broadway Theatre, New York.
It is officially denied that President Johnson had invited Mr. John Bright to visit America in a Federal frigate.
AUSTRALIA.
...Addresses, expressive of deep regret at the assassination of President Lincoln, have been voted by both Houses of Parliament, as well as by the City Council of Melbourne. Similar addresses have also been voted by the other Australian colonies.