
Imperial Parliament


IMPERIAL PARLIAMENT.
HOUSE OF LORDS.--Monday.
The British and United States Governments.--Earl Russell, adverting to some observations made by the Earl of Derby in a former discussion, read extracts from the correspondence with Mr. Adams; and, by a comparison of dates, proved that the decision of the Government as to detaining the iron-clad rams could not have been influenced by any representations of Mr. Adams. He thought that the Earl of Derby ought to have quoted the correspondence more completely.--The Earl of Derby denied that he had suppressed anything. He had seen the volume of correspondence laid before Congress, and therefore knew it was in this country, but he had not read it. The passages he quoted were taken from a newspaper.--Earl Russell, having heard the noble Lord refer to the official publication laid before Congress, had concluded too hastily he had read the volume...
HOUSE OF LORDS.--Tuesday.
The Lord Chancellor laid on the table a return showing the working of the Augmentation of Benefices Act, under which it appeared that sixty-seven livings had been sold, thirty-seven of which fetched £65,300, and negotiations were in progress for the sale of fifty-three more.
British And American Claims.--The Earl of Carnarvon moved for a return of claims made by British subjects upon the United States' Government, sustained either in person or property since the secession of the Southern States, specifying how and the grounds on which such claims have been disposed of; and to ask for any further information as to claims made by the United States' Government upon her Majesty's Government for damages alleged to be done to American ships by the Alabama and other Confederate cruisers. He pointed out that many vessels engaged in legitimate trade had unwarrantably been seized, and he alluded to the case of the Saxon, and that of the Tuscaloosa, which had been seized at the Cape, a matter which required explanation. He stated that the claims of British subjects for compensation for illegal seizure of vessels amounted to no less than two millions.--Earl Russell said that personally, he had no objection to the granting of the return; but it would be very voluminous, and its publication would tend to prejudice the claims to which it would refer. He justified the proceedings of the American prize courts, while as regarded the Saxon ample apology had been made by the Captain of the American cruiser for what had occurred; and as to the murder of the mate, all that could be asked was that the offender be put on his trial. The Tuscaloosa has been seized under the advice of the law officers of the Crown. He repudiated now, as he had always done, any claims arising out of the depredations of the Alabama.