
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamer Etna we have received New York journals to the 4th inst.
War News.

Although a small body of Federal cavalry and artillery under General Pleasanton had crossed the Potomac at Shepherdstown, ten miles above Harper's Ferry, the situation of the two large armies on either side of the Potomac remains unchanged. President Lincoln had passed several days in visiting Harper's Ferry and the Antietam battle-field and reviewing the troops.
General M'Clellan officially reports that the total Federal loss in the battles of Antietam Creek and South Mountain was 14,700 in killed, wounded, and missing. From the time when the Federals first encountered the enemy in Maryland up to the time when the enemy was driven into Virginia the Federals have captured thirteen guns and thirty-nine colours--they losing neither guns nor colours. The Federals have collected 14,000 smallarms on the Antietam battle-field. They have likewise captured 5000 prisoners, of whom 1200 were wounded, and have buried 3000 rebels. General M'Clellan thinks that these two engagements cost the enemy at least 30,000 of their best troops. The Richmond Whig has information that the entire Confederate loss at the battle of Manassas was 5000, and in all the engagements in Maryland about 7000.

The Federal General Rodman, inventor of the Rodman gun, who was wounded at Antietam Creek, has since died.

The Federal General Morgan has evacuated Cumberland Gap with his entire force, and was on his march to the Ohio River. On evacuating the Gap General Morgan sprang the mines, closing the passage through the mountains so completely as to make it entirely impassable. All the stores, artillery, and munitions of war were either brought away or destroyed.

A large portion of General Buell's army has moved towards the interior of Kentucky in several columns. The Confederates have burnt Augusta in this State, forty miles east of Cincinnati. An explosion took place at the arsenal in Columbus on the 25th ult., destroying a large amount of ordnance stores and cotton.

General Beauregard had assumed the command of the Confederate Army in South Carolina and Georgia.

Five companies of Federals had attacked Potchatoula, near New Orleans, but were repulsed with heavy loss.

The steamer Kate, from Nassau, had run the blockade into Wilmington. A schooner with 4500 bushels of salt also ran in. Another schooner, attempting the same thing, ran aground, and was under fire of the blockading steamers for several hours. She had not succeeded in getting off. On the 19th a large paddle-wheeled steamer escaped from Charleston through Sanford's Channel. Two ships, laden with cotton to the amount of 1300 bales, had arrived at Havannah from Mobile and a Texan port. The Federal gun-boats had been ordered to the mouth of the Rio Grande.

The British prize-steamers Circassian, Memphis, Bermuda, Stettin, and Columbia were being fitted out as Federal cruisers.

Advices from New Orleans report that a large number of persons have taken the oath of allegiance to avoid the penalties of the Confiscation Act, which General Butler is rigidly going to enforce.

A despatch from St. Paul, Minnesota, states that on the 23rd 300 Indians attacked Colonel Sibley's command. The battle lasted two hours, resulting in the repulse of the Indians, with the loss of thirty killed and a large number wounded. Four whites were killed and from thirty to forty wounded.

The Confederate States.

The Confederate Congress have had the emancipation proclamation under their consideration. A resolution has been introduced denouncing it as a gross violation of the usages of war and worthy of the execration of mankind. It must be counteracted by such severe retaliatory measures as in the judgment of President Davis may be calculated to secure its withdrawal or arrest its execution.

The Confederate House of Representatives had finally passed the new Conscription Bill, applicable to all men between thirty-five and forty-five years of age, by a vote of 54 against 29.

Yellow fever is raging at Wilmington, North Carolina.

Miscellaneous.

The State of New York had raised 30,000 three years' volunteers over her quota under the first call for 300,000 men, and volunteers for nine months would now be accepted to fill up the second call. 20,000 more men were needed. The draught had been a failure in many parts of the State of Connecticut.
The Border States do not approve of the emancipation proclamation.
General Wadsworth is the Republican, and Mr. Horatio Seymour the Democratic nominee for the New York governorship. Public expectation looks forward to the result of this election with interest, as sure to indicate the predominant opinion of the people of the Middle States on the new policy recently announced by the President.

Gold maintained itself at 22 ¼ premium.

Canada.
Lord Monck has been enthusiastically received by the people of Canada West. After completing this tour he crossed the border, and was last heard of at Chicago, en route for the prairies of Illinois for a few days' shooting. He was accompanied by the Governor of Nova Scotia.