
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The Peruvian has brought news from New York to the 25th ult.
The advance of General Sherman had been checked by the Confederates under Generals Johnston and Hardee. The former Confederate General reports that he engaged and defeated one of Sherman's columns on the 19th ult., near Bentonville, and that Sherman only saved himself by intrenching. Hardee defeated the other column, which attacked his position near the junction of the Black and South Rivers. The Raleigh papers state that Sherman attacked Hardee in his intrenched position and made three desperate charges, and was each time repulsed with great slaughter. Some accounts state that in this engagement Bragg's troops were driven back, compelling Hardee likewise to retire to prevent his being flanked, and that Hardee, in withdrawing, abandoned two guns for want of transportation. Other papers say that Hardee abandoned nothing, and that the Federals were fairly and completely beaten. Northern papers report that Sherman occupied Goldsborough on the 19th, and regard the successes claimed by Johnston and Hardee as unimportant. They think the result will prove favourable to the Federals. Richmond papers of the 23rd state that Goldsborough had been evacuated, but was not occupied by Sherman. General Schofield is said to have succeeded in joining General Sherman, his force forming the right wing of Sherman's army.
Stoneman's cavalry, 6000 strong, have left Knoxville, and are moving towards Western Virginia. Ten thousand Federal cavalry have left Eastport, Mississippi, to destroy the remaining railroads in Alabama and Mississippi.
Sheridan had arrived at White House, after doing a great deal of damage to the railways. A cavalry force sent out to form a junction with him had been unable to do so. A statement is made which, if true, is of great importance. It is that a Federal cavalry force was at Burkesville, the junction of the Richmond, Danville, Petersburg, and Lynchburg railroads.
The Confederates' claim successes in Florida and Louisiana.
A report reached Memphis on the 24th ult. from Hollyspring that Mobile had been evacuated, and that the city, with an immense quantity of war material, was in possession of the Federals.
Two negro companies have been paraded at Richmond, and the impression was that they would make good soldiers.
President Lincoln has visited General Grant at City Point, for the benefit of his health, it is said.
The Confederate Congress has replied to President Davis's message, stating that they will defend their action on all legislative questions. They blame Davis for want of promptitude in making known the wants of the country, and censure the admonitions contained in his message as being calculated to create discord and dissension. The Congress has issued an encouraging address to the people declaring that the conquest of the Confederacy is geographically impracticable. Confidence is expressed for the achievement of their independence and maintenance as a separate nation. A bill was also passed authorising the Secretary of the Treasury to borrow three millions in coin for the army supplies. If so much cannot be borrowed in gold and silver coin, gold dust and foreign bullion will be taxed 25 per cent.
The New York Times says that the Confederate Congress, prior to its adjournment, empowered President Davis to seize the specie in the banks for supplies, and also empowered the Secretary of the Treasury to procure specie from the different States upon terms agreed upon with the State authorities. The writ of habeas corpus has also been suspended.
Two British subjects have been arrested in New York, charged with assisting to equip the Stonewall.
The floods in the north are subsiding, but they have done an immense amount of damage.
The citizens of New York have offered to build a courthouse, at an expense of 4,000,000 dols., if the city is made the capital of the State of New York.
The Americans built on the lakes last year eighty-seven steamers and one hundred sailing-ships, the aggregate burden of which was 47,854 tons. Sixty-seven were built at Cleveland, forty-one at Buffalo, and fifteen at Chicago.