
The Confederate Steamer Georgia

THE CONFEDERATE STEAMER GEORGIA.
We engrave, from a drawing by Mr. Frank Wilson, of Birkenhead, the steamer Georgia, in the naval service of the Confederate States of America, now lying in the Great Float at Birkenhead. This is the vessel which formed the subject of a debate in the House of Commons on Friday, the 13th inst., when Mr. Thomas Baring contended that the British ports ought to be shut against her, because she had been originally equipped and sent forth from a British port in violation of the laws of this neutral State. It appears that the Georgia, which was formerly called the Japan, was built a year or two since at Dumbarton, on the Clyde. She was equipped by a Liverpool firm. Her crew was shipped by the same Liverpool firm for Shanghai, and sent round to Greenock by steamer. She was entered, on the 31st of March, 1863, as for Point de Galle and Hong-Kong, with a crew of forty-eight men. She left her anchorage on the morning of the 2nd of April in that year, ostensibly to try her engines, but did not return. She had no armament on leaving Greenock, but a few days after her departure a small steamer called the Allar, freighted with guns, shot, and shell, and having on board a partner of the Liverpool firm who had equipped her and shipped her crew, left Newhaven and met the Georgia off the coast of France, near Ushant. The cargo of the Allar was successfully transferred to the Georgia on the 8th or 9th of April; her crew consisted of British subjects. The Georgia was registered as the property of a Liverpool merchant, a partner of the firm which shipped the crew, and she remained the property of this gentleman until the 23rd of June, when the register was cancelled, he notifying to the collector her sale to foreign owners. From the very first, however, the Georgia has been carrying on war against the United States, cruising in the Atlantic and burning a number of vessels. Her crew have now been paid off in Liverpool without any concealment, and the vessel is now laid up.