
Foreign and Colonial News

Foreign and Colonial News..AMERICA.


By the arrival of the Etna and Nova Scotian we have news till the 1st inst.

Belligerent Operations.

The Confederates had made another onslaught on the right wing of the Federal army before Richmond. On the 26th uit.[sic], the Confederates having been reinforced by General Stonewall Jackson, attacked the Federals with heavy force. After two days' hard fighting General M'Clellan found it necessary to withdraw his forces across the Chickahominy, evacuating White House, but saving all the materiel stored there. His army is now massed between the James and Chickahominy Rivers, with the former as a base of operations.

The forces of Generals Fremont, Banks, and M'Dowell have been consolidated into one army, and General Pope has been assigned to the chief command. General Fremont asked to be relieved from his command because of this arrangement. President Lincoln acceded to his request, and appointed General Rufus King in his place.

The Southern account of the sharply-contested battle before Charleston has been received. The Confederates claim the victory. Their account is as follows:—

 A severe battle took place on the 16th on James Island, four miles
from this city (Charleston). Five regiments of Federals, with
artillery, attacked our batteries at Secessionville. Colonel Lamar
commanded the Confederates, and with a few hundred men repulsed the
enemy three times with great slaughter. The enemy fought bravely, but
were defeated. Our victory was complete. The enemy's loss is supposed
to be about 400, including forty prisoners. Our loss was 40 killed and
100 wounded, including one Colonel. We buried on the field 100
Federals.

The Federal accounts admit the defeat and acknowledge a loss of 660 killed, wounded, and missing. The Federals were obliged to retreat under cover of their gun-boats. It is stated that General Benham will be court-martialled for disobeying orders in attacking the batteries before Charleston.

It is reported from New Orleans that Fort Morgan, at the entrance to Mobile Bay, had capitulated to Commodore Porter.

On White River, in Arkansas, four gun-boats and a transport, having on board one regiment, engaged and captured two batteries, with a loss of 150 men scalded or drowned by the blowing up of a gun-boat. The Confederate loss was about the same. The White River is now open to commerce.

Washington.

President Lincoln had sent to the Senate a treaty made by Mr. Corwin, the American Minister in Mexico, loaning to the Government of Juarez 11,000,000 dols.

The War Department, in order to stimulate recruiting, had offered 2 dols. premium and one month's pay in advance to all recruits.

The Post-office Department has concluded an arrangement with the Hamburg, Bremen, and Liverpool lines of steamers by which the fastest steamers of each of those lines are accepted for the United States' mail service throughout the year, thus securing a fast steamer for the conveyance of the mails, on Saturdays from New York, and on Wednesdays from Southampton or Liverpool. This arrangement had long been pressed on the department by the commercial interests.

In the House of Representatives, the bill for the further issue of 150,000,000 dols. in Treasury notes was passed by 76 against 46. The Senate's amendments to the Pacific Railroad Bill were concurred in. The House also concurred in the Senate's amendments to the bill prohibiting polygamy in the territories. The offence is punishable by a fine not exceeding 500 dols. and imprisonment for five years. A bill "increasing temporarily the duties on imports" has been reported by the Committee of Ways and Means: it largely increases the duties on iron, ironware, coal, drugs, dry goods of all kinds, fancy goods, and miscellaneous articles generally.

The provisions of the Confiscation Act are very sweeping. They confiscate the slaves of all persons engaged in the military or civil service of the Confederate or separate State Governments of the Seceding States.

New Orleans.

General Butler is still carrying things with a high hand in this city. Four men have been hung for falsely representing themselves as Federal officials, and in this character searching houses and stealing articles therefrom.

The controversies with the foreign Consuls continue. General Butler lays down the law that no foreigner has a right to buy sugar of "rebel" owners and pay for it by bills drawn on England. General Butler desires that the Consuls should not unite to present joint and argumentative protests to him. The Consuls have unanimously protested against the oath demanded by General Butler of foreigners. General Butler defends the course he has taken, and politely suggests that if foreign residents do not like the treatment they receive they can leave the country, which they were never invited to visit.

Miscellaneous.

The judgment against the British steamer Circassian declares that papers were found on board giving conclusive proof of an intention to run the blockade.

As the municipality of Norfolk still refused to take the oath of allegiance to the Federal Government martial law had been proclaimed.

The people of Illinois, by direct popular vote, have adopted amendments to their Constitution which prevent negroes andmulattoesmulattos from settling in that State.

Gold had risen to 9½ premium.
