
[Havannah Advices Announce]

Havannah advices announce the arrival of General John C. Breckenridge in Cuba, after an adventurous voyage, in company with six other persons, in an open boat, from the coast of Florida. The persons accompanying General Breckenridge were Colonel Wilson, an aid to Jefferson Davis, Captain Taylor Hood, formerly commander of the Tallahassee; Corporal Russell, two Confederate private soldiers, and a slave of Breckenridge's who refused to leave his master. General Breckenridge and Colonel Wilson were within forty miles of Mr. Davis when he was captured, and Captain Hood was actually with him, but succeeded in making his escape, and on the following day joined General Breckenridge, and the party at once started rapidly towards the coast. Crossing Georgia into Florida they descended the St. John's River in a boat to Jupiter's Inlet, where they met a party of Federal deserters, from whom they secured a better boat, which they hauled across the country to an inlet of the sea. After performing Divine worship the little party launched their boat. They had a narrow escape from capture on the first day of their voyage. They had beached their boat on a sand-reef, some sixty miles from their point of departure, in order to hunt shellfish, which, with Indian corn, constituted their sole food on the voyage. A Federal steam-transport came in sight, and a boat put off towards the reef. Captain Hood and the two privates met the boat, some distance from the reef, and succeeded in convincing the officer in charge that the party consisted of paroled soldiers, who were looking down the coast for old wrecks, and they were left unmolested. After a voyage of three, or, according to some accounts, eight days, involving great exposure and privation, they reached Cardenas, on June 11. They were very kindly received by the people, and the authorities furnished them transportation to Havannah. Colonel Helm, formerly United States Consul at Havannah, presented Breckenridge to the Captain-General of the island, who received him with cordial hospitality and great courtesy, and is said to have assured him of a safe asylum in the island.