
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the steamer Edinburgh we have intelligence from New York to the morning of the 18th ult.
General Grant has performed an important operation--that of moving his army to the right bank of the James River. After turning Spottsylvania Courthouse and Sexton's Junction, he has now turned the lines of the Chickahominy and the northern defences of Richmond itself. It remains to be seen what he will benefit by the change. The mode in which Grant accomplished the flank march will be read with interest when the details arrive. So far as the telegrams furnish information, he seems to have covered the embarkation of Smith's corps at White House by a cavalry demonstration on the right; then to have made a show of forcing Bottom's Bridge, while the bulk of the army marched rapidly down the Chickahominy, crossed at Long Bridge, and, moving east of White Oak Swamp, struck the James in two columns, one opposite Fort Powhattan, the other at Hasall's Landing, opposite Bermuda Hundred. While the army was marching to the James, General Smith's corps, carried in steam-transports from White House, landed at City Point, as may be inferred, and, moving up the right bank of the Appomattox, attacked and carried the southern defences of Petersburg. Hancock came up, it is said, and took post on Smith's left, and rumour avers that Petersburg fell into the hands of the Federals the next day. Sheridan's cavalry in the meantime had been encountered and defeated by the Confederates, but where the telegram does not say. There appears to have been fighting at Bottom's Bridge, where Grant crossed the Chickahominy, but with what result is unknown. The development of Hunter's advance in the higher valleys of the Shenandoah must have seriously alarmed General Lee, if it be true that he had sent off a whole corps to attack Hunter and two divisions to defend Lynchburg. We are not informed at all of the movements of Lee himself; but it may be inferred that he has moved through Richmond and taken post on the south. Nor are we told how Hunter got through the Blue Ridge to Lovingston and Amherst. Upon these points we must wait for information. Richmond journals discuss the military situation in a very defiant tone, and regard with derision the idea of their capital being captured.
The latest Federal accounts of General Sherman's operations in Georgia represented that, on the 12th ult., the Federal army was within 500 yards of the Confederate position, which was said to extend from Kenesaw [i.e., Kennesaw] to Lost Mountain. There had been no serious engagement, and it was reported in New York that General Sherman's troops were intrenching themselves. A body of 8000 Federals, under General Sturgis, who had been dispatched from Memphis for the purpose of frustrating any attempts to impede General Sherman's long line of communications, had been attacked at Gun Town, in Tennessee, by 10,000 Confederates, under General Forrest, and had been completely defeated. General Sturgis himself was killed, and all his guns and stores were captured by the victors, who likewise took a large number of prisoners.
General Morgan's Confederates had done much damage to the railways in Kentucky, and had taken, on the 10th ult., the town of Cynthiana, with two Federal regiments quartered there. On the 11th, however, they were attacked and defeated by General Burbridge, who made 300 or 400 prisoners and recaptured a few of the Federals taken on the previous day.
By a vote of eighty-four against fifty-eight the House of Representatives had repealed the Fugitive Slave Law.
The Senate have rejected the President's amendment of the Constitution abolishing slavery.
A joint resolution for a final adjournment of Congress on Thursday, June 23, was adopted.
More than 10,000 emigrants arrived at the port of New York in the week ending June 4.
There had been a fall in the price of gold. At last accounts it was quoted at 95¾ per cent premium.