
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The grand jury of the district of Columbia have found true bills of indictment against Jefferson Davis and Breckenridge for treason. They are indicted separately, the overt act being the raid, in July last, within the district of Columbia, Breckenridge having been present in person and Davis constructively.
According to the Philadelphia Inquirer, Davis is manacled on both ankles, the connecting chain being 3 ft. long. He resisted manacling, and it became necessary to throw him down and hold him until the irons were clinched. The Herald denies this statement, and says that Davis is confined in a casemate comprising two rooms. A guard is with him constantly, but he is not manacled, nor are his movements within the casemate restricted.
The story of Mr. Davis's attempt to escape in his wife's clothing is now discredited. Of the many accounts furnished no two are alike. The latest version of the affair comes from Washington, and represents that Colonel Pritchard has presented to the War Department the historical garments themselves, which are now said to consist of a waterproof cloak, used by Mr. Davis as a skirt, and a shawl, which he used as a hood. It seems probable that the petticoat hoax has been purposely circulated by certain officials in order to heap ridicule upon the Confederate leader. Caricatures representing Mr. Davis attired in hoop-skirt, shawl, and bonnet, are sold all over the country. Also others representing him, in similar costume, brought to bay, bowie-knife hand. Few of the leading journals indorse these absurdities.
Governor Letcher, of Virginia, James A. Seddon, and Judge Campbell have been arrested. Alexander Stephens and Postmaster Regan have been sent to Fort Delaware, and Wheeler and his Staff to Fort Warren. C. C. Clay has surrendered; he denies all complicity in Lincoln's assassination.
It is persistently reported that General Lee is to be arrested and indicted for treason.
In the conspiracy trials at Washington the evidence for the prosecution has been completed and the defence opened. The prisoners have set up an alibi. Two important witnesses have been examined, and their testimony has been withheld. Witnesses in open court have testified that Jacob Thompson had heavy money transactions with the Ontario Bank at Montreal. The cipher messages intercepted between Canada and Richmond make no allusion to the assassination of Mr. Lincoln. The cipher found by Secretary Davis was in Secretary Benjamin's office. A letter addressed to Davis, signed Alston, has been produced in court. The writer offers to rid the South of some of her deadliest enemies. The letter is indorsed:--"Referred, by direction of the President, to the Secretary of War to Harrison, Nov., 1864, for attention, by order, J. A. Campbell, A.S.W."
From Texas there is news of a skirmish of little importance. General Hood and his staff are said to have got across the Mississippi. One report has it that Kirby Smith wished to surrender, but that some of the generals under his command refused to go with him. The latest accounts from New York, to the evening of the 27th ult., state that commissioners from Kirby Smith, accompanied by General Heron and Commander Foster, arrived at Baton Rouge on the 23rd ult., and it is asserted that terms have been arranged for the surrender of Smith's whole army.
President Johnson had issued a proclamation opening all the ports, except those of Texas, to foreign trade, and removing all trade restrictions east of the Mississippi.
The Tribune says that the Attorney-General has decided that the amnesty proclamation was a means to secure the suppression of the rebellion. The rebellion ended, the amnesty is void. It does not restore citizenship or property. The confiscation decrees are in full force, and the exercise of executive clemency cannot extend to the future.
President Johnson is reported to have said that he will leave question of granting the suffrage to the negroes to the decision of the loyal people of the interested States.
Five tons of archives of the Confederate Government had been captured in North Carolina.
The New York Herald has proposed a scheme to liquidate the national debt by the voluntary subscription of 300,000 persons at 10,000 dols. each. Upwards of a million dollars have been subscribed in two days in furtherance of this proposition.
Grant and Sherman's armies, numbering 150,000 men, marched, on the 23rd and 24th ult., from the Capitol at Washington through Pennsylvania-avenue, past the White House, where Grant reviewed the troops in presence of Mr. Johnson and the Cabinet. An enthusiastic crowd thronged the line of procession. Sherman was loudly cheered.
In the number of the Augusta Sentinel of May 2 was the last printed relic of slavery likely to be seen in that part of the South. It was the advertisement of "T. Savage Hayward, auctioneer" who proposed to sell at the "Lower market, on May 2, the coloured man Peter, a finished waiter, and the negro woman Laura, a good field hand." General Upton reached the city next day and T. Savage Hayward was glad to escape.
The Federal Government has given the best proof of its determination to maintain a strictly neutral line of policy towards Mexico by seizing a barque containing Mexican emigrants which had sailed from an American port.
The Confederate ram Stonewall has been surrendered unconditionally to the Cuban authorities, by whom it will probably be handed over to the representative of the United States.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
Dr. Blackburn has been committed for trial at the Toronto Assizes on the charge of violating the neutrality laws.
After a protracted dispute, the Canadian Government has come to a satisfactory agreement with the Grand Trunk Railway Company.
Some of the leading commercial men of Montreal are to attend the forthcoming convention at Detroit to consult together about the basis upon which the Reciprocity Treaty may be renewed. The Halifax Chamber of Commerce is also to be represented at the convention.