
Latest News from Abroad

LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD.
The following telegrams have been received through Mr. Reuter's office:--
AMERICA.
[Per the Bremen.]
New York, May 7, Morning.
General Grant's campaign against Richmond has commenced.
General Meade's army crossed the Rappahannock on the 4th, meeting with no opposition. He advanced on the 5th to Chancellorsville and Wilderness, where, after heavy skirmishing, Lee was found in force in the Federal front. On the night of the 5th the position of Meade's army was parallel with, and a little in advance of, the road from Germania Ford to Chancellorsville, both flanks resting on those points, with the general head-quarters at Wilderness. It was understood Meade would make a general attack on the following morning. Heavy firing was heard on the morning of the 6th, but no details of the result of the engagement have been received. The co-operating column, under the command of Generals Couch and Siegel, have marched from Winchester up the Shenandoah Valley.
The troops under General Butler were landed at City Point, on the James River, on the 5th. Monitors and gun-boats co-operate in Butler's movement against Richmond.
General Beauregard is at Petersburg with 30,000 men to oppose Butler.
The Federals also occupy West Point, on the peninsula.
The following particulars of some skirmishing by General Meade, on the morning of the 5th have been received: --The Confederates having appeared in force on the Federal right, near Chancellorsville and Wilderness, the Federal cavalry on the Orange Court House road were driven in with severe loss. Griffiths's division advancing on the right was met by the Confederates under General A. P. Hill, supported by General Ewell, and a severe action ensued, the Federals capturing 300 prisoners and losing two guns. General Hancock's corps, while marching to the Federal right to connect with Warren, was attacked by General Longstreet's full corps, supported by Ewell. Hancock held his position for two hours, under a severe fire of musketry, by which he suffered severely, but inflicted considerable damage on the enemy. These skirmishes showing Lee's whole force to be in the Federal front, Meade ordered his line of battle to be held till the morning. Previous to the advance, General Meade issued an address cautioning the men who refused to do duty on the ground of their term of service having expired that unless they returned to their duty they would be shot down without trial.
General Sherman's army commenced moving on the 5th from Chattanooga towards northern Alabama and Georgia.
The column under General Steele has returned to Little Rock, followed and harassed by the Confederates, who were expected to attack that place.
The Federals burned Washington, North Carolina, at the time of the evacuation.
The Confederate rams are expected to attack the Federal fleet off Newbern.
Southern despatches state that General Forrest had captured Decatur, Tennessee, killing the whole garrison.
Admiral Porter has blown up the gun-boat East Port in the Red River, and whilst returning to Alexandria the attacks by the Confederates compelled him to destroy two transports.
It is rumoured that General Banks was compelled to blow up fifteen gun-boats and transports at Alexandria and Grand Ecore. Other accounts state that he had a successful engagement between those places.
A Congressional Committee of Congress has issued a report stating that the massacre by General Forrest, after the capture of Decatur, had been confirmed by personal investigation.
Gold was 72½ per cent premium.