
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
War Intelligence.
The interest of the war is divided between the doings in Tennessee and Virginia, and at Charleston; but centres chiefly, perhaps, in the movements in Tennessee, by which Federals and Confederates are respectively endeavouring, the former to relieve Thomas's army, and the latter to destroy or force it to a disastrous retreat. General Thomas reports that General Hooker was attacked at midnight upon the 29th ult. Severe fighting ensued, lasting two hours, with less vehemence until four o'clock. At seven o'clock General Hooker reported that the troops repulsed the enemy's attack and drove the enemy from every position they assumed. The Confederates abandoned Lookout Mountain without resistance, and the Federals occupy the south bank of the river from Bridgeport to Chattanooga. The river and railroad communications are unobstructed, facilitating supplies reaching Thomas. General Lee is said to have sent large reinforcements to co-operate with General Bragg in isolating Burnside and driving him out of East Tennessee. Despatches of a very satisfactory character are stated to have reached Washington from General Burnside.
There have been no great operations in Virginia. The bulk of Lee's force is said to be on the south side of the Rappahannock, but he has strong pickets on the north side, with which he harasses Meade's force, and watches all its movements. There had been several skirmishes between his advance and the Federals. Meade had moved his head-quarters from Warrington.
General Gilmore's batteries had reopened fire on Forts Sumter, Moultrie, and Johnson, and have even thrown a few shells charged with "Greek fire" into the city of Charleston. The Confederates were undaunted, and were briskly replying to the Federal fire.
General News.
The Federal debt on the 1st of September was estimated at 1,228,000,000 dols.
The Mexican Ambassador from Juarez had been received by President Lincoln.
A "final grand rally" of the Republicans had taken place at New York in view of the election of State officers, which was to come off on the 3rd inst.
The quota for New York State under the last call for troops, in addition to the deficiency under the former call, is reported to be 108,000, which total must be forthcoming, or the draught takes place on the 5th of January. The New York supervisors are appropriating two million dollars for volunteers.
There are reported to be 11,000 Federal prisoners in Richmond.
The Legislature of Virginia assembled on the 7th ult. Governor Letcher has sent to that body a message full of firmness and faith.
The officers of the Russian fleet have returned from a public excursion to Niagara. Great popular demonstrations of welcome were exhibited along their route.
General Rosecranz [i.e., Rosecrans] has been enthusiastically received at Cincinnati, to which city he went on giving up command. He said he had received a letter from the President, approving his conduct at the battle of Chicamauga.
The New York Times quotes from the Richmond papers, to show the alarming condition of the Southern currency, that the Confederate finances are in a state of collapse, and that a forced loan is the only alternative.
The Richmond papers are very angry with the English Government for detaining the steam-rams in the Mersey. They even profess to regard the act as one of direct hostility.
The Confederate blockade-runner Venus, one of the fastest of the entire fleet, was recently run ashore off New Inlet, North Carolina, while attempting to run out of Wilmington, by the U. S. steamer Nansemond, and totally destroyed. Her cargo consisted of tar and turpentine.