
Foreign Intelligence


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamers City of Baltimore and Anglo-Saxon we have received telegrams from New York to the evening of the 11th inst.

War News.
General M'Clellan, whose head-quarters are at Harper's Ferry, has issued a general order to the troops respecting President Lincoln's proclamation. He says:--The fundamental rule of Republican government is that armed forces are raised only to sustain the civil authorities, and are to be held in strict subordination to them. The discussion by officers and soldiers of Government measures, when carried beyond a temperate expression of opinion, tends to destroy discipline, by substituting political faction for that steady support of Government which is the highest duty of the American soldier. In carrying out the measures of the Government the army will be guided by the same mercy and Christianity which have always controlled its conduct towards the defenceless.

The Confederates, under General Stuart, have again crossed the Potomac at Hancock, a town about thirty miles above Hagerstown. They pushed forward through Maryland, and on the 10th occupied Mercersburg and Chambersburg, in Pennsylvania. Their force is estimated at 3000 men, their advance consisting of 1000 cavalry and six pieces of artillery. The inhabitants of these two towns had no means of resistance. Chambersburg surrendered on the conditions that private property should be respected, but that public property should be removed or destroyed. The Confederates destroyed the Chambersburg railway station, and carried off 500 horses. They were moving in the direction of Gettysburg to destroy the bridge at that point and prevent the approach of General M'Clellan's troops.

On the 8th a severe battle took place at Perrysville, forty miles south of Frankfort, Kentucky, between General Bragg's and General Buell's forces. The Federal loss is reported to have been 2000 in killed and wounded, two Generals and a large number of officers being among the former. General Buell reports that the engagement lasted from 10 a.m. till dark. The enemy was repulsed, but not without some momentary advantage on the left, The main body of the enemy fell back in a southerly direction. General Buell adds, "Our loss is probably pretty heavy, including valuable officers."

General Bragg has issued a proclamation urging the North-western States to exercise their State sovereignty and make a separate treaty of peace with the Confederates. He declares that the South will never interfere with the free navigation of the Mississippi. He appeals to them to desist from a war which can only, after greater sacrifices, terminate in a treaty of peace.

The Confederates have evacuated Frankfort and Lexington, in Kentucky.

The Confederates, under Generals Price and Van Dorn, attacked the Federal General Rosencranz on the 3rd inst. at Corinth, Mississippi. The fighting lasted two days. The Confederates succeeded in reaching the main public square of Corinth, but new batteries were opened upon them, and they retreated. General Rosencranz reported that the rebels were repulsed with great slaughter. He says:--"The enemy is in full retreat, leaving his dead and wounded: The loss is serious on the Federal side, particularly in officers, but bears no comparison with that of the enemy. Seven hundred Confederate prisoners captured." The Federals also captured two batteries. The Confederates have been driven back five miles across the Hatchie River.

The Federals have captured a battery on the St. John's River, Florida, and cut off the retreat of a Georgia regiment.

There have been slight engagements in Missouri and South Eastern Virginia.

The steamer Leopard has arrived at Nassau, New Providence, from Charleston.

The Confederate States.

The majority of the Committee in the Senate has reported resolutions that, after January next, Federal commissioned or non-commissioned officers, when captured, shall be kept at hard labour until the termination of the war or the repeal of President Lincoln's emancipation proclamation. Federal white officers training or commanding negroes in military enterprises against the Confederate States, or inciting slaves to rebellion, or pretending to free them under Lincoln's proclamation, shall, if captured, suffer death.

The State Legislature of Virginia has passed a resolution declaring that no citizen shall be called to account for driving from the State or putting to death any person who may be found aiding or abetting Mr. Lincoln's proclamation.

Miscellaneous.
The Federal Government has abandoned the negro colonisation scheme, the Ministers of the Central America Republics having protested against the scheme being carried out in Central America.

The operation of the draught in New York State had been postponed until the 11th. About 25,000 men are wanted to complete the call under the second proclamation. Massachusetts is in arrear about 10,000 men. In Maine the conscription has been enforced, but each conscript was allowed to call himself a volunteer and to receive the usual bounty-money. In the other New England States the quotas have been filled up by volunteering.

Mr. Cyrus Field has left New York for England, to conclude the arrangements to lay the Atlantic cable in the summer of 1863.

Mr. Charles Sumner addressed a large meeting in Faneuil Hall on the 6th inst. in support of the war, and in favour of the abolition of slavery. Mr. George Francis Train attempted a reply on the slavery question, but was refused a hearing and ultimately removed from the platform in the custody of the police.

The Chicago Tribune says of the late wheat harvest in the Western States:--There can now be but little doubt in the mind of an ordinary observer concerning the shortness of the wheat crop throughout the North-Western States. In Illinois the crop of winter wheat turns out to be sadly deficient in yield and very inferior in quality. In the central counties of the state the berry is shriveled and shrunken, and the average is not over one third of last years yield. In the more northerly counties the yield is not over seven bushels per acre on an average; and many fields were damaged to such an extent by the "bug" that they were not worth cutting. In Wisconsin the crop of wheat is also short. In the northerly counties the quality is good, but the quantity is much below that of last year's crop; while in the central and southern counties the wheat is very deficient, both in quality and yield. In Iowa the quality will average better than in Illinois and Southern Wisconsin; but the yield is not over half of the crop of 1861. In Minnesota the crop is excellent as to quality, and there is not much complaint about the yield.

Gold has risen to 29 per cent premium.