
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
General Lee and Mr. Stephens have, it is stated, applied to the President for special pardons. The health of Mr. Stephens is in a critical state. It is announced that more than 300 applications have been made for pardon from those who are in the exempted classes of the amnesty proclamation.
The Confederate Governor of Louisiana has been arrested at Mobile.
President Johnson has issued a proclamation appointing Judge Starkey Provisional Governor for the reorganisation of the Mississippi. This proclamation is entirely similar in its instructions and provisions to that issued appointing Mr. Holden Governor of North Carolina. Another proclamation has been issued removing all internal, coast-wise, domestic, and foreign trade restrictions in the country east of the Mississippi after July 1. It also proclaims that, armed rebellion having ceased in Tennessee, all disabilities and disqualifications, except penalties for treason attached to an insurrectionary State and its inhabitants, have been removed.
Missouri has adopted a new State Constitution.
General Halleck has written a letter to Mr. Stanton justifying his action towards General Sherman and throwing the responsibility for his course upon Grant.
Evidence has been brought forward at the conspiracy trials proving that Benjamin Wood received a draught of 25,000 dols. from Jacob Thompson. It is reported that Wood has been arrested.
Mr. John Mitchell, one of the editors of the New York Daily News, and recently of one of the Richmond papers, was arrested on the 14th ult. and sent to Fortress Monroe.
General Kirby Smith issued his farewell address to his troops on May 30. He declared that he at first refused to surrender upon the terms accepted by Lee, and would have continued the struggle until honourable terms were secured for soldiers and civilians alike; but, upon reaching Texas, he found that the forces he had relied upon had abandoned their cause, and that he was a commander without an army and a general without troops.
According to the Times correspondent, expulsion and beating of negroes for attempting to ride in the street cars are of daily occurrence in Philadelphia and New York. On Saturday, the 10th ult., a party of nearly 200 soldiers attacked a settlement of negroes in Washington, drove them from their houses, beat them, destroyed their furniture, and appropriated whatever of value could be found. The negroes subsequently rallied, when a fight ensued, in which firearms were used upon both sides, and several persons injured. The riot was only quelled by military force. The Tribune reports that in Washington the greatest ill-will against the negroes exists, and that they are kicked and beaten upon the most trivial pretexts; while in Richmond the schools which had been opened for the freedmen have been closed on account of the ill-treatment and intimidation of the black children by the whites. A letter from Philadelphia says:--"The feeling between the soldiers and negroes in all parts of the country is intense. Very little provocation will be necessary to cause a riot anywhere. The Irish are the particular enemies of the blacks, and fire flies whenever they come together."
A delegation from the negroes in Kentucky have applied to the Bureau of Freedmen in Washington for advice and assistance in obtaining work and the means of support. They represent that the whites in their State refuse to employ them in any capacity whatever. They have also waited upon President Johnson and petitioned that martial law in Kentucky might be continued; and General Palmer granted powers sufficient for their protection. Both requests are asserted to have been conceded.
Four companies of coloured troops, after having embarked aboard transports at Fort Monroe for Texas, objected to proceed on their voyage. One company threatened to fire on their officers. All were then landed, disarmed, and re-embarked. Orders have been sent to City Point to issue no more arms to coloured troops.
The government storehouses at Chattanooga, containing a quarter of a million of property, have been destroyed by an explosion.
A treaty has been concluded with the Government of Honduras, providing for the neutrality of the contemplated interoceanic railway across the territory of the latter State, and its freedom to the Government and people of the United States; the Federal Government, in consideration, agrees to protect this enterprise from interruption or seizure by any Power.
The ram Missouri, stated to be the last of the Confederate fleet in the Western rivers, was surrendered, with her officers and crew, to the Federal commander, W. E. Fitzhugh, at Alexandria, on the Red River, Louisiana, on the 3rd ult.