
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
There had been no general engagement in Virginia, though everything betokened the likelihood of a terrible struggle at an early period. The whole Confederate army, which is said to have been surprised by the sudden advance of the Federals to the Rappahannock, had retired across the Rapidan. During the operations of the 7th, 8th, and 9th inst., including the capture of the Confederate fieldworks on the Rappahannock, General Meade had, according to his official report, taken 2600 prisoners, four guns, 2000 stand of arms, and some waggons. At the latest date General Lee was strongly intrenched south of the Rapidan, and General Meade's army was posted between the Rapidan and the Rappahannock. Lee seems to have had some forces on the north side; for Kilpatrick's camp, near Stevensburg, had been shelled by the Confederates.
Official accounts of the 13th inst., from Chattanooga and Knoxville represented that "all was quiet," and the information concerning the forces of General Burnside, who had been superseded in his command by General Foster, was said to be "favourable." Previous despatches stated that General Longstreet, with 16,000 Confederates, had been detached from General Bragg's army for the purpose of entering East Tennessee. It was supposed that a large Confederate force was marching against General Burnside, who had concentrated his troops at Knoxville. His outposts had been overwhelmed by superior numbers at Rogersville, some sixty miles from Knoxville; and, as we had already been informed, 600 prisoners and four guns there fell into the hands of the Confederates, who may probably have been advancing from Virginia.
The Federals were keeping up a slow bombardment on Fort Sumter, and apparently with very little effect.
No news had been received from General Banks's expedition since it sailed from New Orleans, and it was consequently thought that General Banks might have proceeded to the mouth of the Rio Grande instead of Sabine Pass.
The Federal Texas expedition had received a check, and was returning to Brashear city.
Lord Lyons had communicated to the Government at Washington the fact that a Confederate plot had been discovered in Canada. The object was to seize the steamers on Lake Erie, liberate the prisoners in Fort Johnson, and burn the lake cities. Precautionary measures were at once taken.
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, by a majority of its Judges, had declared the Conscription Act to be unconstitutional.
The workmen's strike in New York was assuming formidable dimensions, and causing much uneasiness.