
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
A discussion has taken place in the Cabinet, at Washington, on the subject of union reconstruction, and the President has expressed his determination to adhere to the line of policy he had originally laid down for himself.
The Federal army is being shorn of its huge proportions with marvellous rapidity. Since May last 700,000 men have been mustered out of the service, leaving on the pay-rolls about 330,000.
At the late elections in Kentucky the Opposition voters are said to have been driven from the polls by the military.
General Palmer, of Kentucky, had addressed to President Johnson an explanatory letter with regard to the position of slavery in Kentucky. He says that, in order to relieve the towns into which the negroes were flocking, he was obliged to grant them passes to cross the river into Ohio. He estimates that there are not more than 50,000 slaves left out of the 250,000 at the beginning of the war.
The emancipated negroes in various localities are adopting measures to bring their claims to the suffrage before the people. A call for a national convention to settle the question is being extensively circulated in South-Eastern Virginia.
In Maine a Republican convention has been held, at which resolutions were passed favourable to negro suffrage, and making the abolition of slavery a condition to the admission of the southern States into the Union; also urging the prompt trial and punishment of Mr. Davis.
Provisional Governor Hamilton, of Texas, in a proclamation, admonishes the Texans to dispel the prevalent delusion that slavery still exists.
The Secession party in North Carolina are again raising their heads, and marking their detestation of Federal domination. It was lately proposed by them to fête the returned soldiers of the Confederate army, and accordingly arrangements were made for a public dinner at Raleigh. The authorities were, however, on the alert, and the proceeding was forbidden.
The Shenandoah is still exciting the apprehensions of the Americans; but Mr. Mason has explained in a letter to the London papers that, as soon as the news of the termination of the war reached this country, instructions were dispatched to the Confederate commander to take his ship into the nearest convenient port and have her forthwith disarmed. Mr. Mason "presumes therefore, that her hostile cruise has long since ended."
A dreadful accident occurred on Lake Huron on the evening of the 9th inst. Two steamers, the Pewabic and the Meteor, came into collision while running at full speed. The former vessel sunk almost instantly, carrying down nearly 100 passengers. The remainder of those on board, numbering seventy-five persons, were rescued by the Meteor.
The caterpillar has appeared on several of the Lousianan plantations, "foreboding," says a New York telegram, "the destruction of the cotton crop."
The Siamese Twins write to the New York journals that they have been ruined by the war, and that they intend to exhibit themselves once more, accompanied by several of their children.