
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the North American we have news from New York to the afternoon of Jan. 9.
There had been some skirmishes and minor engagements in Western Virginia and in the neighbourhood of Winchester, and their result seems to have been generally advantageous to the Confederates. At Chattanooga all was quiet, and General Joseph Johnstone [i.e. Johnston] was understood to be actively reorganising the Confederate army in the neighbourhood of Dalton. An expedition sailed from New Orleans on the 30th ult., and although its destination was not positively known, it was supposed that the forces would at first proceed to Pensacola, and would ultimately operate against Mobile. On Christmas Day the Federals bombarded Charleston with great effect. The Confederates erected a battery on Stono River, and did considerable damage to the gun-boat Marble Head. Two other gun-boats went to her assistance, drove the enemy from the battery, and captured it.
Everything shows the determination of the North to prosecute the war to the utmost. President Lincoln and his Cabinet recommended Congress to offer liberal bounties to volunteers up to the end of February, as the suspension of bounties had almost stopped recruiting. Mr. Wilson has consequently introduced a bill, offering bounties of 400 dols. to re-enlisting volunteers, 300 dols. to new volunteers, and 100 dols. to negro recruits. A resolution to the effect that 1,000,000 volunteers should be called out for ninety days, and should be placed under General Grant's command, had been referred for consideration to the Senate's Military Committee. The House of Representatives had passed a resolution declaring that any proposal for negotiation with the "rebels" should be immediately and unhesitatingly rejected. Mr. Lincoln has been nominated for re-election as President, and his reappointment has been urged in the House of Representatives. The ground alleged in the latter case was that his election would ensure emancipation throughout the Union. In the same connection, the Governor of Maryland, in his message to the State Legislature, has urged that steps should be taken to push forward gradual emancipation in the State. A delegation of citizens had left Arkansas for Washington to arrange for their State re-entering the Union.
Governor Seymour, in his message to the New York Legislature, had recommended measures for the protection of the State banks against the new national banks, had denounced the draught as a failure, and had declared that President Lincoln had assumed powers which subordinated the laws to military authority. The Governor declares that the country can only be saved from ruin by the Administration adhering to its pledge to restore constitutional union. The Republican press are incensed against the message. The New York Times declares that Governor Seymour's sympathies are with rebellion. The New York Tribune denounces him as a traitorous and malignant enemy of his country.
Extensive shipments from New York to the South have come to light, and more arrests have been made.
A letter recently intercepted by the War Department disclosed the fact that W. E. Hilton, a printer in New York, was engaged, under contract with the Southern Confederate Secretary of the Treasury, in furnishing notes, bonds, &c., to the South, and that he was about to proceed to Richmond to superintend a printing and engraving establishment. Hilton was arrested and consigned to Fort Lafayette. In his possession were found six million dollars in Confederate bonds ready for signature.
Archbishop Hughes was buried in New York with great ceremony on the 7th inst. An immense concourse of people was present. The law courts and numerous places of business were closed.
Four negroes called at the Executive mansion, Washington, on New-Year's Day, and were presented to Mr. Lincoln. This is the first occurrence of the kind.
Signal stations, occupied by a small garrison, are to be established along the Mississippi for the protection of the navigation, in accordance with a recommendation from President Lincoln and the Secretary for War.
The Federals have constructed upwards of 5000 miles of military telegraph, and the Secretary for War states that in the course of last year at least 1,200,000 telegrams were sent along these lines--about 3300 a day.
The City of Baltimore was intercepted off Cape Race on the 2nd.
The Nova Scotia Government has placed the steamer Chesapeake in the Admiralty Court.