
London: Saturday, October 25, 1862


London: Saturday, October 25, 1862.
----

Another change of scene in the ever-shifting melodrama of the fratricidal war. We had scarcely had time to examine the details of the last affair at Corinth, where it would seem that the Confederates, after some very severe fighting and after penetrating into the heart of the city, were gallantly repulsed, when we learn that there has been one hard battle (not two) between Bragg and Buell, at Perrysville, in Kentucky, the issue being undecided; and, further, that the Confederates, under Stuart, have once more crossed the Potomac, at Hancock, and gone over Maryland into Pennsylvania. This invading body is represented to be small, not numbering more than 3000; and it is therefore uncertain whether the movement is a mere demonstration or a feint, or whether it is to be followed up. New York is declared to be "in the greatest astonishment." As Mr. Disraeli has it in "Alarcos"--The King's amazed?Poor man! The Confederates had left Lexington and were moving towards Cumberland Gap. M'Clellan claims a decided victory at Antietam, and, unlike General Pope, is able to point to tangible witnesses of his success in the form of fourteen guns and 6000 prisoners, an improvement upon Pope's ideal captures. The commercial news is equally interesting. Gold was at a very high premium, nearly at 28 per cent, upon which fact it might be edifying to hear Mr. Chase. More interesting still is the announcement that the Confederate Congress were con-sidering a resolution empowering the Davis Government to buy or seize a million bales of cotton, and to send agents to Europe to sell it. It is also proposed to repeal all laws prohibiting the export of cotton from ports occupied by the enemy when such cotton is bought by foreigners. Of course, there is no doubt that willing purchasers will be found here for every pound of cotton that can be delivered at Liverpool; but the risk must be that of the venders. The friends of the North argue that this course indicates a great lack of money on the part of the South. In all probability the sinews of war will be found equally wanting on both sides; and, if the South is desperately bent on selling cotton, Mr. Chase's greenbacks to be exchanged for gold only at the frightful sacrifice that has been mentioned (Austrian financiers of a few years back must be interested in this state of things) does not say much for national confidence, and there are not wanting those in America who talk very uneasily of the possibility of peace being celebrated by a wholesale application of the sponge. Influential Southerners are now demanding urgently that a recognition shall take place, and some of the Northerns interpret this as an intimation that the Confederates have had enough of fighting; but the general tone of the South by no means favours this idea.