
Echoes of the Week

ECHOES OF THE WEEK.
...That famous Amazon of Secessia, Belle Boyd, now Mrs. Hardinge,—and whose marriage to the gallant but susceptible lieutenant whom she converted, as Omphale converted Hercules, to Southern proclivities, was one of the fashionable events of last season--is in London, and proposes, it is said, to publish her memoirs as a Secesh partisan and aide-de-camp to Stonewall Jackson. These memoirs cannot fail to be very interesting. Belle Boyd has been the Flora Macdonald, the Madame Lavalette, of the South, and has suffered captivity, exile, and poverty for the cause which she believes to be the true one. It will be gatifying to her friends to know that her husband, who was taken prisoner while attempting to run the blockade--and who, under the circumstances, might have expected to languish in a Federal prison until the termination of the war--has been conditionally released, and has rejoined his wife in England.
There is another American lion--for Belle Boyd deserves the nobler gender--just now in London, and who is being lionised to the last hair of his mane. Il est de Marly! as they used to say in the days of the Grand Monarque; and a grand field-day was held in his especial honour at Aldershott last week. This lion, however, roars from the Northern side of the hedge. His name is General Barlow, and he is one of the youngest and bravest of the Union generals. At the commencement of the war General Barlow was a peaceful lawyer in New York city; but, his blood fired by the attack on Sumter, he enlisted in the Federal army as a private; rapidly obtained promotion; was in all the pitched battles in the Wilderness and at Spottsylvania Courthouse; captured a Confederate brigade 5000 strong; and, for his distinguished gallantry, was made a Major-General. This Paladin of the North is a slim, beardless, well-shapen youth--just such a one as you might picture George Brummell to have been when he was a Cornet in the 10th Hussars--and does not look six-and-twenty. But what are years to those who are made of the heroic stuff? How old was Wellington at Assaye, and Napoleon at Arcola?