
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The pacification of the country seems to be rapidly progressing. General Dick Taylor has surrendered his forces to General Canby. The interview between the two Generals for arranging the terms, which were similar to those granted to Lee and Johnston, took place at Magee's Plantation, fourteen miles north of Mobile, on the 4th inst. In some quarters, however, there is evidence of a disposition not to give in. Kirby Smith has published an appeal to his soldiers, dated Shrieveport, April 21, denouncing Lee's surrender and exhorting them to stand by their colours. He says that his resources are ample to protract the struggle until foreign aid arrives, or until such time as they can secure terms worthy of a proud people. The people of Houston, Texas, passed resolutions on the 22nd ult. to continue the struggle. The trans-Mississippi department was declared to be sufficiently vast and full of resources to repel invasion, ensure independence, and sustain Davis. "Some thought otherwise," adds the telegram, laconically.
Jefferson Davis had not been captured. When last heard of he was at Powell Town, Hancock County, a little north-east of Milledgeville, Georgia. A close watch is being kept on the coast to prevent his escape.
Several orders have been issued having in view the reorganisation of the South. These show, in the first place, that there will be no undue severity exercised on the people; next, that slavery is everywhere absolutely extinguished and the freed men put under the guardianship of the Federal forces, which for the present will occupy the country; and, finally, that trade is to be fully reopened.
President Johnson has issued a proclamation calling for renewed efforts to capture rebel cruisers. He goes on to say that he will refuse hospitality to the ships of neutral nations who may henceforward give hospitality in their ports to rebel cruisers.
In an address to the coloured population, President Johnson said that he trusted the time would come when all the coloured people would be assembled in one country, best adapted to their condition, if it should appear that they could not get along with the whites. He declared that man could not hold property in man.
The trial of the Booth conspirators, which began on the 9th inst., is proceeding, with closed doors. The prisoners pleaded not guilty.
According to the New York Times, Johnson's proclamation offering rewards for the arrest of Mr. Davis and others was issued upon the opinion of the Judge Advocate-General that evidence proved Mr. Davis to be connected with the inception and execution of the Booth plot, though it is not supposed that direct personal action can be traced to him.
A Mexican emigration company has been formed in New York, with agencies throughout the United States, and has advertised for naval and military emigrants. A large number has already been enlisted. It was, however, confidently anticipated that the Federal Government would enforce the neutrality laws as regarded the Mexican enlistments.
There is an increasing exodus from Canada to the United States. The inhabitants of Lower Canada are emigrating in large numbers.