

Echoes of the Week

ECHOES OF THE WEEK.
...The very decided victories achieved by the Southern Confederacy, the news of which arrives just as we are putting their shipowners on trial as pirates; the facts that they dominate the Mississippi, have crushed Banks, keep Grant in check, and have retaken and hold at least six important forts, the possession of which relieves their chief city and makes it safer than Washington itself; these facts have brought forward Mr. W. S. Lindsay, who proposes that now the time has arrived for an open recognition of the Southern States as an independent nation. Why not? It is useless to conceal the fact that their conquest is utterly hopeless. The Northern States, taxed to their utmost, are staggering on in a fool's paradise, believing, probably, that their debts will never be paid, that repudiation will be easy, or that the "resources" of America are so enormous that she will quickly recover.
Among the curious items which we receive from New York are two somewhat noteworthy. The first is that Lieutenant Danenhower (not Donovan, we are told with emphasis) has been acquitted of the murder of Mr. Gray, of the ship Saxon. Our readers will remember that this Federal officer had a habit of shooting people down, and that he shot an inoffensive English mate in an English ship which the Yankees had overhauled. No one supposed that a New York jury would have condemned him; and yet it "yerks one," as Lord Burleigh has it, to see Murder walk away scot-free! The other is that the Confederates amongst Banks's baggage took one million of dollars in greenbacks. Now, a million to English ears is a great fact. So it is--in pounds; it falls to a fifth in dollars, and in greenbacks to nothing. A few revolutions of the Government printing-machine and all the "treasure" will be replaced....
Three queer books were hatched last week--a new edition of Disraeli's Revolutionary Epic; a revelation of the doings of three months in an English monastery (which, by-the-way, is far less comfortable than an English workhouse, not to mention a prison) under the guidance of Father Ignatius; and "Manhattan's" novel. The latter holds such sins within its cloth covers that Mr. Mudie--a volunteer Expurgator Indicis--has withdrawn it from his readers; a conscientious act, for which, however questionable the result is he is to be honoured. Manhattan dedicates his farrago of clotted Americanisms to James Gordon Bennett, of the New York Herald, a person whom he has himself very plentifully bespattered with abuse....