
London: Saturday, September 13, 1862


London: Saturday, September 13, 1862.
----
But for General Pope's assertion that he has gained a victory we should be inclined to believe that the engagement between the Federals and Confederates on Aug. 29 had really been a Union success. It would seem that after a stubborn contest on the field of Bull Run the armies had separated, both having sustained heavy loss, but the Federals remaining in possession of the ground. But the gallant Pope has rendered it a matter of duty with readers of his despatches to be cautious, and to await confirmation of his statements when they notify, as they usually do, some brilliant feat of arms on his part. We cannot forget that immense class of prisoners whom he took one fine morning, and whom he must have immediately annihilated, as none of them were ever seen in the flesh by mortal man save himself. He reports that the Confederates were "badly used" in this last engagement, and that he was about to proceed to use them still worse. The New York people do not appear, if their money market be an index to their feelings, to have been greatly reassured by this piece of information, which the Government, after a long suppression of all news, permitted to be issued for the consolation of the North. We shall shortly have means of testing the veracity of General Pope. The levy was going on, according to the Northern prints, very satisfactorily, and it is reasonable to suppose that the enormous bribe offered on enlistment must have produced its effect. Meantime, the President's candid declaration to Mr.Greeley that this is not an anti-slavery war, but that, on the contrary, Mr. Lincoln is ready and anxious to place the slave system on the basis most acceptable to the South, if only the Union can be preserved, has drawn angry comment from his friends in America and in England, and not unnaturally, for he has cut away the only ground upon which Englishmen could be asked to take an interest in the success of the North. His manifesto is certainly calculated to give a lively colour to his intimation to the blacks that they would do well to take themselves out of the Union, in which they are not, he tells them, favourites, and towards whose white constituents they have no particular reason to feel kindly. Many of them are, it is said, accepting this half-friendly notice to quit. As much as possible is being made of the Irish element, and it is evident that the Union relies in no small degree upon the swords of Hibernian mercenaries. It will be a novelty in history should a State be found to have gained permanent strength by the aid of such auxiliaries.