
Imperial Parliament

IMPERIAL PARLIAMENT.
...HOUSE OF LORDS.--Tuesday.
...Federal Enlistment In Ireland.--The Earl of Donoughmore referred to the case of the men who had been received into the United States ship of war the Kearsage at Cork, and urged that the statement of the captain, that he did not know of their being in the vessel, was contrary to the depositions of the men themselves.--Earl Russell said that he had called the attention of the American Minister to this case, and he was informed by him that instructions had been issued by his Government to the effect that any officer in their service who infringed the Foreign Enlistment Act should be dismissed. Mr. Adams had also offered to refer the case of the Kearsage to the Executive at Washington, but he (Earl Russell) was not of opinion that either the American Consul or the captain of the Kearsage was blamable in this matter.--The Earl of Derby said that it was clearly proved that the men in question were examined, attested, and cl[o]thed in the American uniform on board the Kearsage; and it was, therefore, not possible that any of the officers of the ship could be unaware of the circumstance.--The Marquis of Clanricarde objected to allowing the Kearsage to be repaired in one of her Majesty's dockyards under the circumstances.
Removal Of British Consuls In The Confederate States.--The Marquis of Clanricarde moved for correspondence relating to the removal of British Consuls from the Confederate States of America, urged the inconvenience of there being no accredited agents of this country in those States, and that it was quite possible to keep up the system of Consuls without recognising the Southern States.--After some explanation by Earl Russell the notion was agreed to, and their Lordships adjourned at a quarter to seven o'clock.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.--Tuesday.
...Mr. Layard, in answer to Colonel Sykes, said that by a judgment of an American prize court, the ship Saxon was to be given up to the owner, free of all charges. He believed that Lieutenant Donoghue was to be tried for the killing of the mate of the Saxon.