
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
UNITED STATES.
Mr. Secretary Seward had issued a notice that lists of claims against foreign Governments, including claims for compensation for the depredations of the Alabama and other Confederate cruisers and of Confederate "raiders" from Canada, are to be sent to the State Department, in order that they may be preferred for settlement.
The Alabama Convention has repudiated the whole Confederate debt. The Massachusetts Democratic State Convention has indorsed the President's reconstruction policy.
The South Carolina Convention had passed resolutions embodying the opinions expressed by the deputation from the State in their interview with the President--namely, that the people having been defeated it was not wise to continue the contest, and that the restoration of the Union was now the paramount object to be sought. The Convention accordingly repealed the Secession Ordinance, decreed the abolition of slavery, and passed other measures in accordance with the President's views, and then adjourned.
The trial of Wirtz still goes on; but he is sinking fast, and it is not believed that he will live to hear the sentence. "The defence," says a correspondent who has formerly said all he can for the prisoner, "will have hard work of it. Nothing that can be brought forward in extenuation of Wirtz's atrocities can counterbalance the mass of damning evidence against him. Yesterday he was subjected to the ordeal of personal identification by the witnesses. He was compelled to stand up in open court; and, after inspection by the person giving evidence, he sank down and fainted away. A physician constantly sits by his side, in the court-room, and it is found necessary to administer ether frequently in order to keep life in him through the day's sitting of the Court."
A large Fenian meeting has been held at the Cooper Institute, New York. The speeches denounced the British Government and solicited contributions in aid of the Fenian organisation.
In a speech by President Johnson, addressed to a newly-accredited Brazilian Ambassador, M. Joaquim de Azambuja, we find these words:--"Our wish is not to weaken new American States, but to strengthen them; we are more disposed to give them a generous confidence than to feel jealous at their prosperity or to cavil at their form of government."
The equinoctial gales have been severely felt all along the Gulf coast.
The Panama Star announces that the commander of the British war-steamer Devastation, lying at Acapulco, on the receipt of information of the depredations of the Shenandoah, immediately started in pursuit of her, asserting that, if he overhauled her, he should treat her as a pirate.