
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
The battle of the 3rd inst. in Virginia, referred to in our last, was a more serious matter than was at first stated. Grant appears to have attacked the Confederates in their works north of the Chickahominy, with the view of driving them across that river. He was repulsed with a loss of between 5000 and 6000 men (not 3000, as first announced), and the experience thus gained is stated to have convinced him that new combinations were necessary to effect the capture of Richmond. On the evening of the same day, and on the 5th and 6th, the Confederates became the assailants, but, according to Federal statements, they were everywhere repulsed. The latest news from New York, to the morning of the 11th inst., adds little further information. Rumours were current that General Grant had moved his left from Lee's front, and passed a portion of his troops over to the south bank of the Chickahominy at Dispatch Station, and that he intends to besiege Lee's works. It seems certain that between the 3rd and the 10th Grant had not again ventured to attack Lee's lines.
In Western Virginia General Hunter has fought and routed a Confederate force under General Jones, who was killed.
Sherman had made a further advance, having got far on the road to Marietta, a vital point in the approach to Atlanta.
A Federal gun-boat, the Water Witch, had been captured in Ottaban [i.e., Ossabaw Sound, Georgia.
In Kentucky the Confederates were making some show under Morgan, and on the Mississippi they held Fort Columbia.
General Fremont and Colonel Cochrane have accepted the nomination of the Cleveland Convention.
Far more important than this, however, is the news that the Baltimore Convention has unanimously nominated Mr. Lincoln for President, and. Mr. Andrew Johnson for Vice-President, and that Lincoln has accepted his nomination.
President Lincoln has approved the proposal to amend the Federal Constitution by the insertion of a clause prohibiting slavery.
The clause in the Enrolment Act which permits the commutation of personal service for a payment of 300 dollars had been expunged by Congress.
A sanitary fair was opened at Philadelphia on the 7th inst.
The officers of the Russian fleet had been entertained by the city of Boston at a grand banquet at the Revere House.
The citizens of Philadelphia had presented the wife of General Meade with a handsomely-furnished house in that city.
Gold, having reached 99, left off at 98 1/8 prem. on the 10th.