
Foreign and Colonial News: America


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the Norwegian we have received telegrams, viâ Cape Race, to the evening of the 22nd ult.

War News.

The Federals and Confederates have had another week of battles resulting in the evacuation by the latter of the soil of Maryland. Of the action on the 14th, at Hagerstown, Maryland, General M'Clellan reports as follows:--After a very severe engagement the corps of Generals Hooker and Reno have carried the heights commanding Hagerstown-road by storm. . . . The action continued after dark, and terminated leaving us in possession of the entire crest of the heights. . . .General Reno was killed.
On the side of the Confederates General Garland, of North Carolina was killed.

On the next day General M'Clellan reports General Franklin's success on the left, resulting in the capture of the Gap and 1000 prisoners. On the 15th the Federals pursued the Confederates, who took their stand at Sharpsburg, Maryland, under the command of General Lee. The 16th was chiefly occupied in deploying the forces and gaining positions; but on Wednesday, the 17th, a severe battle was fought, lasting from dawn till dusk. The result of the battle was not very decisive; but the superiority of position remained with the Federals. They estimate their loss at from 6000 to 10,000 men. Their loss in Generals and field officers is almost unprecedented. General Mansfield was killed, and Generals Hooker, Duryea, Sumner, T. F. Meagher, Max Weber, Dana, Hartsuff, Richardson, Sedgwick, Ricketts, French, and Rodman were wounded.

Little beyond skirmishing occurred on Thursday, the l8th. On Friday General M'Clellan reports that the enemy abandoned his position in the preceding night, leaving dead and wounded on the field.

The Confederates commenced recrossing the Potomac at Shepherdstown Bridge, and two fords above and below it, early on Thursday night. General Jackson conducted the retreat into Virginia, and suffered only a slight loss in waggons and artillery, and 300 wounded men. Early on Friday General Pleasanton pursued the retreating forces with two batteries and two regiments of infantry, and captured some of their ammunition and supplies and a small portion of a South Carolina brigade. The Confederates retreated towards Winchester. The Federals by last accounts were crossing the Potomac at Shepardstown and Williamsport.

Generals Siegel and Heintzelmann remained for the defence of Washington.

The Federal Colonel Miles, with 6000 men, surrendered at Harper's Ferry to General Jackson on the 14th. The property delivered up consisted of 10,000 stand of arms and more than forty guns, of which only seven were spiked. The commissary stores consisted of six days' rations for 12,000 men. Harper's Ferry was only won after three days' fighting. The Federals were immediately paroled. On the 18th the Confederates evacuated this position after destroying what stores they could not carry away, also the pontoon-bridge and the bridge of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.

The Federal garrison at Mumfordsville, Kentucky, numbering 4500 men, with ten pieces of artillery, surrendered on the 17th to General Bragg, whose forces numbered 30,000.

The Confederates have gained some advantages over the Federals in Western Virginia.

On the other hand, the Federal gun-boats on the Mississippi have been active. They have destroyed Prentice and BayouBayon Sara, in Mississippi, leaving in the latter place only two houses standing. Natchez was also bombarded for two hours and a half. The city then surrendered, but was not occupied by the assailants.

The iron-clad Confederate steamer Ovieto has entered Mobile in full view of the blockading squadron. Commander Preble has been dismissed the United States' service for his laches on this occasion.

Draughting in the Northern States had generally been postponed for a few weeks on the authority of the Governors of the several States, who hope to be able to make up their quotas by voluntary enlistment. In Connecticut the draught had been made, and had caused a few slight disturbances. The Governors of Pennsylvania and Ohio have issued a call to the Governors of all the Union States to meet on the 24th at Altoona, Pennsylvania. The subject of their deliberations will probably relate to the feasibility of the forced conscription.

The Confederate States.
The Richmond Whig says that the expenses of the Confederate Government since the commencement of the war to August of this year amount to 347,000,000 dols.
The Confederate Congress has adopted a resolution to make a proposition to the Federal Government to treat upon the manner of conducting the war so as to mitigate its horrors. A resolution was passed recalling Messrs. Mason and Slidell.

Miscellaneous.

Mr. G.F. Train, late of London, had arrived at Boston, and received a public welcome at the Revere House. He lectured, the evening after his arrival, to a large audience in Tremont Temple. He cleared 500 dols. by his address, which he devoted to the Soldiers' Fund. His theme was "England," which he proclaimed to be "a great sham." He has gone on to Washington, to have an audience with President Lincoln and Secretary Seward. He received, immediately on his arrival in Boston, ninety-three applications to lecture.

The cricket-match of the season between eleven of the military of Canada against eleven civilians of the United States, selected from the St. George, New York, and Philadelphia Clubs, was played at Hoboken, a suburb of New York city, on the 10th and 11th ult., and resulted in a victory for the Americans, with five wickets to spare.

On the 17th ult. a frightful explosion took place at the Pennsylvania State arsenal, Pittsburg. It occurred in a large frame building known as the laboratory; 170 boys and girls were employed in the building at the time of the disaster, of whom seventy-five or eighty were killed. One explosion followed another, until the entire building was destroyed, and those who could not escape in time were burnt. The cause of the explosion is not known, but it is admitted by all to have been accidental.

The Provost-Marshal at St. Louis has received instructions immediately to carry out the Confiscation Act in Missouri. The property liable to confiscation is estimated at 50,000,000 dols.

The first body of free negro emigrants to Central America under the President's colonisation scheme was to start early in October in a first-class steamer. Senator Pomeroy, of Kansas, is conductor. The first body was to consist of 500 emigrants, nearly all of them provided with implements of husbandry and a full outfit of domestic utensils. Among the advance party are two of Frederick Douglass's sons.