
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the latest news we learn that the Federals were pushing the siege of Charleston with great pertinacity, and that the continuous bombardment was telling against Fort Sumter. There was a doubtful report that this fort had been captured, but otherwise the state of matters at Charleston was unchanged.
General Lee is organising a large reserve force, and General Meade is preparing to receive an attack of the Confederate General. The Washington correspondent of the Tribune writes on the 19th ult. that information received directly from Richmond, corroborated by the statements of deserters and exchanged prisoners, shows that General Lee is preparing to invade Maryland, and that the Secessionists of that State will aid him with all men, money, and provisions that they can provide. He adds, General Lee has for some time past been secretly organizing a reserve of 40,000 men, who are to be stationed at Winchester or some other point in the Shenandoah Valley.
Eight hundred guerrillas, under Quantrell, have crossed the Missouri River, captured Laurence, Kansas, burning and destroying property to the estimated value of 2,000,000 dols. Senator Lane is supposed to have been captured. The Federal troops have started in pursuit.
It is reported from New Orleans, under date of the 10th ult., that the Federal General Andrews had been defeated in an encounter with the Confederates in the rear of Port Hudson. He lost 150 in killed and missing, and two pieces of cannon.
Advices from New Orleans to the 11th, viâ Memphis on the 17th ult., state that yellow fever was prevalent in that city.
The Governor of Alabama has issued an address, enjoining the impressment of negroes into the Confederate service.
Mr. Davidson, a member of the North Carolina Legislature, has written a letter to the Raleigh Standard, saying he believes four fifths of the people of North Carolina demand peace upon any terms which will not enslave and degrade them. They may prefer Southern independence, but that they now believe cannot be obtained, nor do they see much future hope of it. They would compromise upon an amendment to the continuation and perpetuation of slavery in the States. He urges the people to elect members to the next Southern Congress who favour a six months' armistice, and submission of disputed matters to a Convention of Delegates from the Northern and Southern States, elected by the people themselves.
The New York Times contains an article attacking England and lauding Russia. It says--"We are bewildered at England's treachery, which has subsided into a fixed, unchangeable policy. There can be no oblivion of the past. Henceforth America will recognise no tie to England." The New York Times accepts these new relations and says--"It will go hard with America but England shall have enough of these relations before America has finished."
The draught continues in New York, in the presence of 20,000 troops, without any disturbance. Mayor Opdyke has called a meeting of the Common Council to act upon the amendment he has to propose to the municipal appropriation for draughted men. General Dix had issued a well-timed address to the people entreating them to maintain order. The City Council had voted a sum of 3,000,000 dols. to provide substitutes for the conscripts to be draughted from the city.
The ship Anglo-Saxon, from Liverpool to New York, was burned by the Confederate steamer Florida thirty miles west of Kinsale. The crew were taken off and subsequently landed by the Florida at Brest.