
Foreign Intelligence

FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.AMERICA.
By the Jura we are in possession of telegrams from New York to the evening of the 7th inst.

Belligerent Operations.

There has been a succession of conflicts between the Confederate army, commanded by General Jackson, and the right wing of the Federal forces. The Federal account of the result is that it was part of M'Clellan's plan to withdraw his forces from across the Chickahominy and concentrate them on the James River, along which they might advance on Richmond in company with the gun-boats, seventeen of which are at hand. This movement, which leaves the left wing of the old position in the situation of the right wing of the new, was interrupted by repeated attacks from the Confederates. The Federals affirm that they were not beaten in any of these conflicts, and that, though suffering severely themselves, they always inflicted heavier losses on the assailants. No guns were lost since the 27th ult., when General M'Call's division was at first overwhelmed and twenty-five pieces fell into the hands of the enemy. On the other hand, the Confederate General Magruder has been captured. The evacuation of the several places was effected without any loss of stores or baggage. The position now occupied by the Federals near Turkey Bend, on the James River, is much healthier than that in the swamp country bordering on the Chickahominy.

The Confederates claim to have captured 12,000 prisoners, all M'Clellan's siege guns, and supplies sufficient to last the Confederate army for three months. Richmond, accordingly, has been illuminated.

As no details have yet been allowed to appear, it is impossible to estimate the losses on either side, The Richmond Examiner confesses that one division, which went into the fight on Friday, the 27th, 14,000 strong, could only muster 6000 for duty on the following Tuesday, and that the sacrifice of life exceeds that of any battle yet fought. M'Clellan's head-quarters were established on Malvern Hills, one mile back of Turkey Bend.

The Federals had captured the Confederate gun-boat Teaser in James River.

General M'Clellan had issued an address to the army declaring that the Federals shall enter Richmond, and that the Union shall be preserved, no matter what the cost of time, treasure, and blood.

The Federals had evacuated James Island, near Charleston, and returned to Hilton Head. The summer campaign against Charleston had been suspended. Since the evacuation of James Island the Confederates have been threatening Port Royal, in the same State. General Hunter, commanding in this department, acknowledges, in reply to an inquiry from Congress, that, in default of reinforcements from New York, he had drilled and armed fugitive negroes, and that by the end of the autumn he would present to the Government from 48,000 to 50,000 "of these hardy and devoted soldiers."

Vicksburg continued to hold out against the Federal fleet. The Federal Commander was employing his troops to cut a canal across the land opposite the city, so as to change the course of the Mississippi and render Vicksburg an inland town.

The Federal General Curtis was in a perilous condition in Arkansas. He was unable to procure supplies, and his army had been reduced to half rations for a week. The enemy, under Pike, 6000 strong, were moving from Fort Smith to take him in the rear.

The first train from Memphis to Corinth was attacked by the Confederate cavalry and captured twelve miles from Memphis. It contained eighty mule-teams with provender-waggons, and a company of an Ohio regiment, besides several officers and railway officials, who were all captured.

The Confederate States.

President Davis had informed the Governor of Georgia that the conscription was necessary to ensuring the success of the Confederacy.

General Beauregard had published a letter in the Mobile News denying the capture by General Pope of 10,000 prisoners, as telegraphed by General Halleck. He says that 100 or 200 stragglers would cover all the prisoners he took, and about 500 damaged muskets to boot. All that the Confederates lost during the retreat would not amount, he says, to one day's expense of the enemy's army.

All the clergymen of Nashville had refused to take the oath of allegiance to the Federal Government. Most of them had been confined in the Penitentiary.

General Butler had issued a new form of oath for foreigners at New Orleans. Instructions had been sent to him from Washington to cease all further correspondence with the foreign diplomatic agents and to leave such matters to the Department of State.

Washington.

President Lincoln, urged by a petition signed by eighteen Governors of loyal States, had called for a levy of 300,000 additional troops.

The House of Representatives had passed the Tariff Bill.

A meeting of the Conservative members of Congress had been held in the Capitol.

Personal.

The Comte de Paris and the Duc de Chartres have quitted the Federal army and returned to Europe.

General "Stonewall" Jackson, the hero of the recent rencontres with the Federals, is a native of Virginia, where he was born in 1825. He graduated at West Point in the same class with M'Clellan in 1846. He fought through the Mexican War, which he entered as a Second Lieutenant and quitted as a Major. A description of him in a New York paper is to this effect:--

As for his outer man, he looks at least seven years older then
he is--his height about five feet ten inches; his figure thick-set,
square-shouldered, and decidedly clumsy; his gait very awkward,
stooping, and with long strides. He often walks with his head somewhat
on one side, and his eyes fixed upon the ground, imparting to his
whole appearance that abstracted quality which young ladles describe
as absent-minded. A lady who has known him long and well has told me
that she never saw him on horseback without laughing--short stirrups,
knees cramped up, heels stuck out behind, and chin on his breast--a
most unmilitary phenomenon. In society he is quiet but cheerful, not
loquacious, but intelligent and shrewd; in religion the bluest kind of
a Presbyterian, and extremely strict in his church observances. In
Winchester he took a very active part in revivals, and habitually led
the Union prayer meetings.

Miscellaneous.

A large anti-abolition meeting had been held in and around the Cooper Institute, New York.

Gold had advanced to 10 per cent premium, and the exchange on London had reached a higher quotation than at any period since 1837. American stocks and bonds were being sent over for sale in large quantities by European holders.