
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
Close Of The War.
The war may now be said to be virtually closed, for by the latest advices from New York (to the 28th ult.) we learn that General Johnston has surrendered all the forces under his command on the same terms as those granted to General Lee; and the Confederate forces still at large are of small importance.
At a meeting on the 18th ult. between General Sherman and General Johnston, at which Mr. Breckenridge was present, an agreement was drawn up which was virtually a treaty of peace. Hostilities were by it suspended, and forty-eight hours' notice was to be given of their resumption. The Confederate armies were to be disbanded, their arms and public property being deposited in the State capitals. The State Governments were to be recognised by the Federal Executive. Where there were conflicting State Governments, the Supreme Court was to decide as to the legitimacy of each of them. The civil and political rights, and rights of property of the people, were to be recognised to the extent of the law as written in the Constitution; and, finally, a general amnesty was to be proclaimed. Sherman's action was promptly repudiated by the Federal Government, chiefly on the ground that he had no right to treat for peace, and that the terms of the agreement, if acted upon, would guarantee the continuance of slavery. General Grant at once went to Raleigh, and ordered hostilities to be resumed and pressed forward without delay.
A despatch sent by General Grant, on the 26th ult., from Raleigh, reported that General Johnston had surrendered to General Sherman all the forces under his command--embracing all from Raleigh to the Chattahoochie--upon terms the same as those granted by General Grant to General Lee's army in Virginia. Private accounts stated that General Johnston had endeavoured to obtain an amnesty and permission for President Davis and other Confederate lenders to leave the country, but that these demands were summarily rejected by General Grant.
It was reported that General Taylor, who commands the only Confederate force now in the field to the east of the Mississippi, was ready to surrender to General Canby, the captor of Mobile, if "favourable" terms were granted to him. Nothing was known as to the intentions of General Kirby Smith, who commands the Confederate forces west of the Mississippi, but probably he has by this time accepted conditions similar to those agreed to by Lee and Johnston.
It was asserted that Mr. Jefferson Davis, with an escort of 200 horse, had left Goldsborough for the Mississippi; and there had even been a rumour that he had already crossed the Mississippi, on his way into Texas.
Death of Booth.
The death of President Lincoln's assassin, John Wilkes Booth, is announced. It appears that Booth--whose leg had been broken by a fall from horseback, but which had been set by a Maryland surgeon, named Mudd, who has since been arrested--and an accomplice, named Harold, were discovered to have taken refuge in a swamp in St. Mary's County, Maryland. They were pursued, but seem to have found means to cross the Potomac, and to reach a farm near Port Royal, on the Rappahannock. There they were followed by a party of Federal horse, but they barricaded themselves in a barn, and refused to surrender. The Federal troopers then set fire to the barn, and in the affray which ensued Harrold was taken alive and unhurt; but Booth was shot through the head by a sergeant. He lived, however, about three hours afterwards, and found an interval to send a farewell message to his mother. Booth's corpse and Harrold were taken into Washington on the morning of the 27th ult. It is stated that Booth's body has been buried privately, by order of the War Department. Junius Brutus Booth has been arrested on suspicion that he was of his brother's accomplices.
General News.
Mr. Lincoln's remains were conveyed on the 25th ult., amid popular demonstrations of mourning, from the City Hall, New York, to the dépôt, en route for Albany, followed by the largest procession ever assembled in that city, including the foreign Consuls, detachments of military, and large numbers of citizens and coloured people. Masses of people lined the streets through which the procession passed. In the evening religious services were held by all the sects in New York. A meeting was also held in Union-square, at which Mr. Bancroft delivered an oration.
President Johnson has appointed June 1, instead of May 25, as a day of humiliation on account of Mr. Lincoln's death.
Secretary Seward is rapidly regaining strength, and has already been out riding. His son is out of danger.
Harrold has, so far, been quite reticent and morose. The trial is to take place immediately.
Lewis Payne, the man who, it is supposed, attacked Mr. Seward, is in gaol at Washington. He recently attempted to beat his brains out against the iron bars of his cell, but was prevented, securely bound, and his head incased in a wadded cap, in order to frustrate any similar attempt at self-destruction.
Secretary Stanton has declared that he possessed information to the effect that the assassination plot had been framed in Canada and approved at Richmond; and that the man apprehended at Washington, and believed to be the assailant of Secretary Seward and his sons, was one of the St. Albans "raiders."
The changed aspect of the war has enabled the Government to reduce the military expenditure a million dollars a day.
President Johnson had made a speech in which he stated that leniency must be shown to the people of the South, but that their leaders must be punished.
Confederate prisoners who were willing to take the oath of allegiance and "become loyal citizens," and who were "proper objects of clemency," were to be released upon such terms as the President might deem "fit and consistent with public safety."
A frightful calamity had occurred on the Mississippi, the transport-steamer Sultana, with 2000 Federal soldiers on board, having been destroyed on the 28th ult., near Memphis, by the explosion of her boilers. Of the 2000 men on board, who are said to have been "paroled prisoners," released by the Confederates, 1400 perished.