
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
Battles between Generals Bragg and Rosencranz [i.e., Rosecrans].
Retreat Of The Latter.
As announced in our town edition last week, there have been two days' severe fighting between the Confederate forces under General Bragg and the army of General Rosencranz near Chickamanga Creek, in the north-west corner of Georgia--the result being that Rosencranz was defeated and compelled to retreat to Chattanooga.
The following is a summarised account of the two days' battle:--At eleven on the morning of the 19th ult. the Confederates attacked General Rosencranz near Chickamanga Creek. A fierce musketry engagement ensued, the woody nature of the ground preventing the use of artillery. Early in the engagement the Confederates captured five guns of the celebrated Loomas battery. Fierce fighting continued till two o'clock in the afternoon, when the Federal centre was pushed, broken, and retreated in disorder, pursued by the Confederates, who were, however, afterwards checked and driven back. The Confederates then drove General Davis's division back with heavy loss, capturing every gun of the 8th Indiana Regiment. Davis, however, succeeded in rallying his forces and re-took his guns. General Reynolds's division suffered severely, but maintained its position. Palmer's division lost two guns. Van Cleve's division lost ground and did not regain its position. A general fight continued until long after dark. At its termination both armies are said to have occupied the same ground as at the commencement. The Federals captured ten guns and lost seven.
At ten a.m. on Sunday Thomas's division, which held the left of Rosencranz's line, was assailed with great fury, and was very shortly compelled to call for reinforcements, and at noon he was forced to retire. The whole of M'Cooks corps, except the divisions of Sheridan and Davis, was then withdrawn from the right, where a portion of it was in the line of battle, and from the centre, where it was in reserve, and sent to Thomas's support. Its place in the centre was filled as well as it could be by the divisions of Sheridan and Davis. This change had been no sooner effected than a furious onslaught was made on the centre, and Sheridan and Davis were driven off the ground in disorder, borne down by superior force, and were not rallied and brought into action again for some hours. Thomas found his right flank thus exposed, and made his dispositions accordingly, and received and repulsed attack after attack until nightfall. He retired during the night towards Rossville, bringing off all of his wounded.
On the following afternoon, according to one account, the Confederates attacked General Thomas, but were repulsed, and Thomas proceeded to Chattanooga, where Rosencranz had concentrated his forces and was awaiting reinforcements.
General Rosencranz telegraphed to Washington on the night of the 23rd that he could not be dislodged from his position.
The Washington National Republican says the killed and wounded on both sides will probably not fall short of 30,000. The Federal loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners is estimated at 12,000 men. 1000 Confederate prisoners have been sent to Nashville.
General Bragg officially reports to his Government that after two days' fighting the enemy had been driven from several positions, but still confronted him. He captured twenty guns and 2500 prisoners.
The strength of the two sides prior to the engagement is not clearly know. Bragg is said to have had 71,000 men, including Buckner's and Johnston's corps. If to this be added either Ewell's or Longstreet's corps of say 20,000, it would give him about 90,000 men. Rosencranz's effective available force is believed to have been about 40,000.
According to one account, Burnside, with the ninth corps, 20,000 strong, was in peril on his way from Knoxville to Chattanooga. According to another he had joined Rosencranz on the 23rd, and the former was expecting help from Grant.
Other War News.
Charleston news to the 22nd ult. has been received. Both sides were firing vigorously, but there is no material change in the situation.
In Virginia everything presaged a battle. Meade's army was moving, and the Confederates were reported in his front prepared to meet him. Nothing definite was known as to their strength.
The Federals are said to have sustained reverses in Texas.
An important Federal movement is taking place on the line of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad.
Miscellaneous.
The Confederate Government is declared, on the authority of the Richmond Despatch, to have effected a loan on cotton of 100,000,000 francs in France. The New York Herald states an important rumour--that Vice-President Stephens had gone to Europe with an offer to cede Texas to France in return for French assistance to the Confederate Government.
The Russian flag-ship Alexander Newsky, Admiral Lasofski, with four other Russian men-of-war, have anchored in New York harbour. It is rumoured they will remain there all the winter. The press urge that an hospitable welcome be given to the Russian officers.
It was reported at New Orleans that the French had occupied Matamoras with 5000 troops, and that a collision between them and the Federal gun-boats at the mouth of the Rio Grande was imminent.