
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamer Bohemian we are in receipt of telegrams from New York to the evening of the 14th inst.

War News.

On the 7th inst. the order relieving General M'Clellan from the command of the Army of the Potomac was received at head-quarters. The order was delivered to the displaced General by General Buckingham. On its receipt the command was handed over to General Burnside. On retiring he issued the following farewell order:--Officers and Soldiers of the Army of the Potomac,--An order of the President devolves upon Major-General Burnside the command of this army. In parting with you I cannot express the love and gratitude I bear to you. As an army you have grown up under my care. In you I have never found doubt or coldness. The battles you have fought under my command will proudly live in our nation's history. The glory you have achieved, our mutual perils and fatigues, the graves of our comrades fallen in battle and by disease, the broken forms of those whom wounds and sickness have disabled, the strongest associations which can exist among men, unite us still by an indissoluble tie. We shall ever be comrades in supporting the Constitution of our country and the nationality of its people.

The army made no particular demonstrations in behalf of its late Commander. On reaching Warrenton Junction, the troops crowded round him and demanded a few parting words. He said, in response to this appeal, "I wish you to stand by General Burnside as you have stood by me, and all will be well. Good-by." General M'Clellan retires from active service, and intends to reside at Trenton, New Jersey. On his way thither he was everywhere received with marks of approval. Large numbers of persons have gone to Trenton to pay their respects to the General. At a serenade given in his honour he made a speech, in which he said that whilst the army was fighting the citizens should see that the war was prosecuted for the preservation of the Union, the Constitution, and their own nationality and rights. Two of his Staff officers have been arrested and sent to Washington. The charges against them are unknown.

General Burnside, the new Commander, is a Rhode Islander, about forty-one years of age, and a Democrat in politics. The Republican journals pronounce themselves in favour of the change; but the Democratic organs and party regard M'Clellan as a victim. General Burnside has issued an address to the army, in which he says he accepts the command with diffidence, but with confidence in the patriotism of the army. His army has already advanced to Fayetteville, four miles from Rappahannock station.

In order to strengthen the grounds for M'Clellan's removal a correspondence between General Halleck and the Secretary of War has been published, in which the former states that he issued peremptory orders to General M'Clellan on the 6th of October to cross the Potomac and give battle to the enemy or drive him south. General M'Clellan did not obey this order, on the ground that he was short of supplies. General Halleck and Quartermaster-General Meigs assert that General M'Clellan's requisitions were promptly supplied, and that there was nothing to prevent him advancing. The Harper's Ferry Investigating Committee have censured M'Clellan for marching only six miles a day in pursuit of the enemy.

No confirmation has been received of the reported surrender of 3000 Confederates at Plymouth, North Carolina.

Over 300 Sioux Indians have been convicted by the military commission as participators in the late massacres, and are condemned to be hanged. Whether they live or die rests with the authorities at Washington. The people of Minnesota, to a man, are in favour of their immediate execution.

The report of iron-clad vessels being built in England for the Confederates has aroused apprehensions for the safety of New York harbour. Measures are being taken for its security.

The Confederate States.

Merrimac No. 2 is completed, and is below Fort Darling, ready for sea.

General Beauregard has ordered all slaves and non-combatants to leave Charleston.

The Confederate General Bragg had been put under arrest, and superseded by General Johnston. Bragg's derelictions in the Kentucky campaign were the cause of his arrest.

The Bishop of Georgia announces that the union of the diocese of Texas, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, the Carolinas, and Virginia is completed, under the name of the Confederate States of America. The first general council will meet at Augusta.

PERSONAL.

Paul Morphy, the celebrated Southern chessplayer, has left New Orleans for Havannah, where he is giving the usual display of his marvellous powers. He was about to sail for Cadiz on board a Spanish steamer.

Lord Lyons left New York for Washington on the 11th inst.

General Fremont has been ordered to report himself for duty.

Archbishop Hughes has written a letter to Mr. Seward, in which he says that America should be prepared, for there is no love for her on the other side of the Atlantic. Generally speaking, he says, the United States are ignored, if not despised, in Europe; treated of in conversation in the same contemptuous language that Americans might employ towards the inhabitants of the Sandwich Islands or Vancouver Island.