
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
There has been a fierce struggle between Generals Lee and Grant for the Weldon Railway. On the 19th ult. the Federals took up a position on it, but were surprised and driven back, with a loss of 3000 killed and wounded. The Federals, being strongly reinforced, regained the position; and, though the Confederates made repeated efforts to dislodge them, they maintained an intrenched position at the Reams station on the 27th. The Weldon line was of great value to the Confederates, as by it a large portion of their supplies from Wilmington, Charleston, and the Carolinas was brought.
An engagement took place in the Shenandoah Valley on the 21st ult., between Generals Early and Sheridan, near Charlestown. The loss on both sides was severe; but apparently the latter had the worst of it, for he fell back to Halltown, a small place near Harper's Ferry on the Virginia side. Early proceeded to Martinsburg, whither it was reported General Lee was advancing to join him with a large force, with the intention of invading Maryland.
Sherman's position in front of Atlanta was said to be unaltered, but his cavalry had cut ten miles of the Macon railroad. As this is the sole line along which supplies for the defenders of Atlanta can be brought, its destruction is an important achievement. On the other side, the Confederate Wheeler had cut the Knoxville and Chattanooga railway, along which some of the Federal supplies were brought.
From Mobile we have news that the Federal troops from Pensacola were advancing to the bay, and General Granger was within five miles of Fort Morgan. Th Mayor of Mobile had ordered all non-combatants to leave the city, which was to be defended to the last extremity. The Confederates have sunk a steamer in Mobile channel, rendering access to the city impossible until removed.
The Tallahassee burnt twenty-two fishing-vessels off the North Cape of Prince Edward Island on the 25th ult.
Rumours of peace negotiations are again current in New York, and the Herald states that overtures either for peace or an armistice had been made to the South by the Administration. A semi-official denial has, however, been given to this statement.
Gold had gone down as low as 250 7/8; but this was attributed to the probability of M'Clellan being nominated President by the Chicago Convention.
Chicago despatches report that the nomination of General M'Clellan by the Convention is considered certain, and that of Pendleton, of Ohio, for Vice-President. Several prominent Abolitionists have urged President Lincoln and General Fremont to withdraw their names as presidential candidates, and to call a convention to nominate a fresh Republican candidate. General Fremont has consented to withdraw if President Lincoln will do so also.
The Victoria, the London packet-ship which had Franz Müller, the suspected murderer of Mr. Briggs, on board, arrived at New York on the 24th ult. Müller was apprehended, and the hat and watch of Mr. Briggs were found in his possession. Nevertheless, he protested his innocence. Mr. Death, of Cheapside, jeweller, identified Müller positively as being the man who bartered Mr. Brigg's chain with him; and the cabman, Matthews, also swore to his identity. The legal proceedings precedent to his extradition for trial in England were progressing on the 27th ult.