
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
War Intelligence.
By the latest accounts from New York, to the morning of Dec. 5, we learn that General Meade, finding Lee's position on Mine Run Valley too strong for assault, retreated on the 1st inst. to the north of the Rapidan. It is supposed that Meade will go into winter quarters near Washington. The Washington Star, an official organ, declares that Meade's campaign was a military failure. It is rumoured that General Sedgwick will supersede Meade.
The defeat of General Bragg was, it seems, not so disastrous as at first reported. The Confederates, surprised in their preconcerted retreat, were bewildered and disordered, but they soon regained their coolness, and showed so strong a front, that the Federals had given up pursuing them, and General Grant had resolved on not prosecuting the campaign farther till the spring. Of the proceedings at Knoxville the papers leave us in doubt, and whether Longstreet has or has not retreated, after having attacked the city and been repulsed, remains uncertain. According to one account General Bragg has been superseded by General Hardee, who is preparing to resume the offensive against Grant.
From Charleston we have the old story of continued firing, with little result. Despatches have been received to the 1st inst. Gilmore was throwing twenty shells per diem into Charleston. The shelling of Fort Sumter had been discontinued.
General Banks announces the occupation of Brownsville, and says three revolutions have occurred in Matamoras. The first was adverse to the interests of Mexico and the United States. Everything, however, is now as favourable as could be desired.
General News.
President Lincoln is said to be seriously ill, his malady being smallpox.
A large meeting has been held at New York to raise volunteers.
The Conservative Union National Committee, at a meeting held in Cincinnati, nominated General M'Clellan for the next presidency.
Mr. Gunther, an independent peace Democrat, has been elected Mayor of New York by a large majority, defeating the Tammany and Mozart Hall and Republican candidates.
The Confederates keep up continual attacks on the steamers navigating the Mississippi.
Strong abolition resolutions have been introduced in the Missouri Legislature.
The famous guerrilla Morgan has broken prison and escaped from the Penitentiary at Columbus with six fellow-prisoners; and in spite of an immense reward offered by the Federals for his capture, "alive or dead," he has reached Toronto.
Thirteen steamers ran the Wilmington blockade on the 19th ult.