
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
Mr. Lincoln has been re-elected President by a large majority. According to the Times' correspondent, who telegraphed on the 10th inst., "Mr. Lincoln has at the lowest estimate a numerical majority of 400,000 votes;" and another correspondent telegraphs that "Lincoln has 213 out of the 234 electoral votes." Mr. Andrew Johnson, Military Governor of Tennessee, has been elected Vice-President. There were no serious disturbances during the elections in any of the States.
On the night of the 8th inst. President Lincoln was serenaded by a company of Pennsylvanians, and on the night of the 10th he was serenaded by the Columbian Republican Clubs. Mr. Lincoln declared that the peaceable consummation of the recent elections in the midst of a great civil war proved the ability of a Republican Government to maintain its existence in a great emergency, and at the same time preserve the liberties of its people. Now that the elections were over, he appealed to all parties to unite in a common effort to save the common country; and, while expressing his gratitude to Almighty God for directing the mind of the country to what he considered a right conclusion, he added that it afforded no satisfaction to think any other man might have been disappointed by the result.
It is reported that M'Clellan has tendered a resignation of his major-general's commission, and that the President refused to accept it, and will probably offer him a command.
Mr. Seward has made a speech at Auburn, in which he pledged the Government to a vigorous prosecution of the war and declared that there was no intention on their part to abandon the war measures against slavery.
Whilst the North continues to breathe threatenings and slaughter, the South abates not one jot of heart or hope. The Message of the Southern President at the reopening of the Confederate Congress, on the 8th inst., has been published. President Davis spoke in a defiant tone. He favourably reviewed the military, financial, and material situation. He complained of the non-recognition of the Southern Confederacy by the great Powers of Europe, but declared that the South desired no intervention, and was able to maintain its own rights, and that peace was impossible without independence. He recommended that the slaves in the service of the Government should be raised to the number of 40,000, should be employed as engineers, labourers, and pioneers, receiving a preliminary training which would render them a valuable reserve in case of emergency, and should be promised their freedom at the end of the war. He disapproved any general levy and arming of the slaves; but should the alternative be presented of subjugation or the employment of slaves as soldiers, no doubt exists what would then be his decision.
A bill has been introduced into the Confederate Congress enlisting all white men between eighteen and forty-five, and revoking all exemptions.
The war news is unimportant, and some of it more than usually obscure; that from Georgia, especially, is "confusion worse confounded." First there was a rumour that the Federals under Sherman have burnt and evacuated Atlanta, and started off through Georgia towards Charleston. "This statement," adds the telegram, "requires confirmation." The statement is reiterated, however, by a despatch of the 11th inst., through Mr. Reuter's agency, but discredited by the Times' correspondent in a telegram of the same date. The latest item is dated the 12th, as follows:--"No particulars are yet known of Sherman's movements, but they are reported to be progressing favourably. The burning of Atlanta has not yet been confirmed." So of General Hood. There were contradictory reports that he had succeeded in crossing the Tennessee with his troops, and that he had been foiled in the attempt. According to one account, he has destroyed the Federal gun-boats and transports at Johnsonville, capturing the officers and crews, and taking a large quantity of stores and artillery.
General Price was said to have been again defeated by the Federals at Newtonia, and to be retreating with his recruits and supplies towards Arkansas; and the Confederate invasion of Missouri was apparently regarded as terminated, for the Federal Generals Rosecranz [i.e., Rosecrans] and Pleasanton had returned to St. Louis.
There had been no serious operations in the neighbourhood of Richmond, though there had been some skirmishing, caused by a Confederate reconnaissance of General Grant's left. General Lee's forces are said to be now as numerous as Grant's, and an offensive movement on the part of Lee was expected.
In the Shenandoah Valley General Ewell has superseded Early in the command of the Confederates; and Sheridan, with his Federal troops, has retired to Windsor. There are rumours of an advance by Early, also of a co-operation movement by Longstreet and Breckenridge in South-Western Virginia for an invasion of the Northern States. At last dates Sheridan was near Winchester, and the Confederates at Newmarket, receiving reinforcements.
In consequence of the destruction of the Confederate ram Albemarle, the Federal gun-boats had been enabled to reoccupy the town of Plymouth, in North Carolina.
The news of the seizure of the Florida at Bahia had been received, and had provoked much discussion; but the New York Times, a journal in the confidence of the Administration, declared that "America owed Brazil satisfaction and an apology, in accordance with the usage of nations, for the seizure of the Florida."
The privateer Chickamauga continues her depredations.
Numerous citizens in Chicago have been arrested, charged with a plot to burn the city and release the Confederate prisoners. The Democrats have issued a protest declaring that the arrests were made an excuse for military interference at the polls.
General Butler had taken the chief command of the troops in the State of New York; and it was asserted that he had warned goldbrokers that they must not speculate in gold to the detriment of the Government. Mr. Fenton has been elected Governor of New York.
The price of gold had varied from 260 to 243 3/8, standing at the latter quotation.
New York advices state that Mr. Charles Windsor, for fourteen years one of the principal cashiers of the Mercantile Bank in that city, has absconded, leaving a deficiency in his accounts of nearly £50,000. The Mercantile Bank, after deducting this loss, has still a reserve of about £90,000.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
...A Quebec telegram says:--"Prominent men from the Northern States are here urging the Canadian Government to energetic co-operation with the American authorities to preserve the peace of the frontier. Efficient measures on the part of the Canadian Government have been taken."
The examination of the witnesses in the St. Alban's raid was proceeding slowly in Montreal.