
Illustrations of the War in America

ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE WAR IN AMERICA.
We have engraved on the next page two more of our Special Artist's sketches in illustration of the American war.
Unloading Cotton From Blockade-Runners At The Port Of Nassau.
The first Engraving represents an operation which, though its locality is the British port of Nassau, in the West Indies, must be described as an incidental result of the Federal blockade. In our Journal of April 16 we published a View of Nassau, with one of those steamboats which frequently escape the vigilance of the Northern cruisers off Wilmington just entering the neutral harbour in safety. We now engrave a vessel of this description lying at the wharf in Nassau and unshipping her valuable freight. The thousand negroes engaged in this labour make the neighbourhood of the quays resound with their songs as they heave and haul at the heavy bales; and some, carried away by their excitement, leap on to the fluffy piles and relieve themselves by a "break down." As the cotton is usually the property of English purchasers who have ordered it beforehand in exchange for their cargoes of English manufactured goods, this Illustration may be regarded with particular interest by some of our readers.
General Stuart's Winter Quarters On The Rapidan.
We will leave our Special Artist to describe in his own words the second Illustration:--"Probably," he says, "no Southern General is more frequently heard of in England than the gallant and chivalrous Stuart, who commands the Confederate cavalry in Virginia. Almost every mail brings to Europe some tidings of a raid executed by this dashing leader in the Federal rear, or of the capture of a Yankee supply-train between the Rappahannock and Potomac rivers by some of his daring horsemen. It is from the tent on the right-hand side of the Engraving that his orders for "boot and saddle go forth;" and, when once those orders are abroad, the Federal soldiers get but little rest. However, as the snow now thickly covers the soil of Virginia, the General is compelled to an ungrateful idleness, and your Correspondent takes advantage of the moment's quiet to make the accompanying drawing." This remark was applicable to the state of the weather in Virginia at the time our Artist's sketch was made.