
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the North American and the City of Washington we have New York news to the 6th inst.
President Johnson had issued a proclamation offering a reward of 100,000 dollars for the arrest of Mr. Jefferson Davis, who was said to have been on the 28th ult. at Yorkville, on the northern border of South Carolina, and to have had some Federal cavalry only one day's march in his rear. Charges of implication in the plot for President Lincoln's assassination have been made against Mr. Davis, also against Jacob Thompson, Clement C. Clay, Beverly Tucker, George N. Sanders, W. C. Cleary, and "other rebel traitors against the United States Government, harboured in Canada," for whose apprehension rewards are offered. The charge has, however, been indignantly denied by them in the Canadian journals.
The formal surrender of General Johnston's forces, which were stated to number 27,000 men, took place at Greensborough on the 29th ult. The main body of General Sherman's army was about to march northwards; but General Schofield's corps was to remain in North Carolina.
Mr. Mallory, the Confederate Secretary of the navy, has given himself up to the Federal authorities at Pensacola.
At Memphis an order had been issued announcing that after a certain date those of the Confederates who have not surrendered will not be treated as prisoners of war.
The reduction of the Federal armies has been begun by discharges of convalescent and paroled soldiers; and it was said that as many as 400,000 men would be immediately disbanded.
President Johnson made a speech to the Pennsylvania delegation reiterating that the severest penalties of the law would be inflicted upon the rebel leaders. He has issued a proclamation removing the restrictions on trade, except in articles contraband of war, with the Southern States east of the Mississippi.
Chief Justice Chase and a treasury agent have left for the South, to organise the law courts and trade regulations.
A Confederate iron-clad steamer, named the Webb, said to have been laden with cotton, ran out of the mouth of the Red River on the 23rd ult., and succeeded in passing the Federal squadron. She proceeded down the Mississippi, and passed New Orleans on the 24th, but before she had passed the forts she encountered a Federal frigate coming up the river, and her captain ran her ashore and burned her.
Mr. Seward was nearly restored to health, and his son is improving gradually.
The newspapers were discussing the terms on which a "reconstruction" of the Union is to be effected; and the chief difference of opinion appeared to be on the question whether negroes shall be admitted as voters.
An advertisement had been published in a Washington paper inviting officers and soldiers to go to Mexico, and other papers hint at filibustering expeditions thither.
It is said that among Mr. Lincoln's papers has been found a package of letters marked, in his own handwriting, "Assassination Letters." While many of them threatened his life, others warned him of plots to take it.