
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
General Grant has returned to Petersburg, after having visited Washington and the Upper Potomac. On the 5th the Confederates charged his lines, but were repulsed with great slaughter.
Hagerstown has been reoccupied by the Federals, and the Confederates, having withdrawn from Maryland into Virginia, have, on the authority of scouts, been attacked and defeated by Averill at Moorfield, with the loss of 600 prisoners and four guns.
General Hunter has been superseded by General Sheridan, who has been placed in command of the Middle Military Division, embracing the department of Washington, the Susquehanna, Maryland, and Western Virginia.
At last accounts the situation at Atlanta remained unchanged. General Sherman was strengthening his position, and vigorously preparing his siege operations. Hood maintained his lines, and was thought to be making every exertion to interfere with Sherman's communications. It was reported that large bodies of Georgia militia had reinforced Atlanta.
Letters from General Sherman's army state that the battle on the 28th ult., previously mentioned, was brought on by an attempt by General Hood to outflank General Sherman while extending his right. The contest was most severe, and for a time the result was doubtful, though ultimately the Federals repulsed their assailants.
The report of the capture by the Confederates of General Stoneman and a portion of his command is fully confirmed.
The accounts of Admiral Farragut's operations at Mobile were derived from despatches sent by the Confederate authorities to Richmond. From them it appears that seventeen Federal war-steamers passed Fort Morgan on the morning of the 5th, but that the monitor Tecumseh had been sunk by the fort. The Confederate Admiral Buchanan and the iron-clad steamers Tennessee and Selma had been taken by the Federals, and the Gaines had been driven ashore. The Federal fleet had approached the city, and a body of Federal troops had been landed on Dauphin Island, in the rear of Fort Gaines.
The American correspondent of the Army and Navy Gazette gives the following account of the seacoast defences of Mobile:--
The entrance to the bay is between Mobile Point and the eastern point of Dauphin Island, the distance between them being about three miles and three quarters. The interior of the bay has water enough for any vessel which can cross the bar, which has about 15 ft. upon it at low water. A shoal opposite the mouth of Dog River, eleven miles south of the city of Mobile, prevents vessels drawing more then 8 ft. going further up the bay. A short distance above the mouth of Dog River, and on the bar bearing the same name, obstructions have been placed and in some places old vessels have been sunk, blocking up the channel, leaving only a narrow passage through them so that their own vessels can pass through. Lines of intrenchments have been thrown up, encircling the city from near Dog River around to the Alabama river, and no less then twelve large independent and outlying earthworks command the obstructions and the approach to the city. On Pintos Point is a formidable earthwork, mounting nine large guns; at Garrow's Bend is a five-gun battery, commanding the river obstructions and the main channel for a distance of three miles. The remaining earthworks in that vicinity are intended to repulse the landing of troops on the western shores, or a land attack, which could be made at Portersville, on Mississippi Sound, and thence marching up by the road to Spring Hill. The intrenchments are about fifteen miles in length, and were thrown up some time ago. A tract of marshy land has been made solid by means of spiles and earth, and on this has been erected a casemate-battery, armed with ten heavy guns--viz., three 100-pounder rifles, four 9-inch Dahlgrens, and three long 32-pounders. Between this battery and the Alabama river, near the latter, is a redoubt whose guns can sweep the level plateau over which it keeps guard as well as commanding a portion of the bay. Passing further to the north, another redoubt is met, mounting four guns; this commands a portion of the railroad. At Three-Mile Creek, guarding the railroad, is still another and quite as formidable a work; and between the Alabama river and the Shell-road is a six-gun battery. Fort Morgan, the main protection of the city of Mobile, is located on a long, low, sandy peninsula, called Mobile Point, at the entrance of the bay. It cost the United States in its construction nearly a million and a half dollars, and is capable of mounting 132 guns and of garrisoning 700 men; but, with the water-batteries erected near it, its present garrison does not fall far short of 1500 men. Fort Gaines, or Dauphin Island, is a smaller work, and is said to mount from fifty to sixty guns, and has a garrison of about 900 men.
South Carolina advices to the 5th report a heavy bombardment of Fort Sumter and Charleston in progress. The Federal officers placed under fire at Charleston, and the Confederate officers held under fire on Morris Island by General Foster in retaliation, have been exchanged. This releases on each side five generals and forty-five field officers.
General Birney recently made a successful raid into Florida, destroying several bridges and a portion of the railroad between Fernandina and Baldwin.
Several of the New England States are vigorously recruiting, through special agents, among the blacks in General Foster's department to fill their State quotas under the recent call for troops.
A rumour prevailed at New York that a Confederate raid was to be made from Canada into Buffalo, with the view of destroying the Erie Canal.
It is also asserted that Mr. Stanton, the Secretary for War, has tendered his resignation.
The New York police, in conjunction with the English detectives, have made every arrangement to arrest Müller on his arrival.
The Southern papers announce the appointment of the Hon. George A. Trenholm as Secretary of the Treasury, in the place of the Hon. C. G. Memminger, resigned. Mr. Trenholm is a native of Charleston, about fifty-five years of age, and the senior partner of the firm of John Fraser and Co., of Charleston, which, with its Liverpool branch, Fraser, Trenholm, and Co., has been extensively engaged in blockade-running enterprises since the beginning of the war.
It is reported that there are now at Andersonville, South Carolina, over 30,000 Federal prisoners, and that over 2000 died there during the month of June.
The steamer Georgia, under British colours, has been captured by the Federal steam-frigate Niagara off the mouth of the Tagus. It will be remembered that the Georgia, which was built in an English port, cruised for some time as a Confederate man-of-war, and was then sold at Liverpool. She was bought by Mr. Bates, a merchant of that town, and is alleged to have been chartered by him to the Portuguese Government as a packet between Lisbon and the West Coast of Africa. She sailed from Liverpool on the 8th inst. "with a very valuable cargo," said to be intended for Lisbon and the West Coast of Africa; and on the 15th she was captured near the mouth of the Tagus by the Niagara. A prize crew was put on board, and she was sent to New York, while the Niagara steered for the British Channel, and has landed her prize's men at Dover.