
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Canadian mail screw-steamer Hibernian we have telegrams from New York, by way of Farther Point, to the evening of the 6th inst.
War News.

General Lee has evacuated Fredericksburg and abandoned the line of the Rappahannock. It is not known where he is gone. General Hooker has crossed the river and occupied Fredericksburg.
The intelligence from Vicksburg reaches to the 2nd inst., at which date General Grant had planted siege-guns close to the works. One division of General Grant's army has gone up the Yazoo River. Confederate General Johnstone is at Jackson. On the 26th ult., the gun-boat Cincinnatti, while attempting to pass Vicksburg, was sunk by the fire of the Confederate batteries. More then twenty of her crew were either killed by the enemy's shot or drowned when the vessel sank.
The Confederate defences at Port Hudson were assaulted on the 27th ult. by the Federals, under General Banks. The defences were completely invested, while gun-boats co-operated from the Mississippi. The assault, however, we are told, was only "partially successful," and 3000 Federal soldiers were killed or wounded, but "fighting was still progressing."
Letters from New Orleans, of the 23rd ult., report that two Confederate ironclads from Mobile had run out of the harbour and captured the Federal ship of war Vincennes and sunk the store-ship Relief, which were lying at Ship Island.
A body of Federal cavalry was making a successful inroad into Alabama, had captured some prisoners and supplies at Florence, and was destroying all stores, mills, granaries, &c., as it proceeded through the country.
The vanguard of General Price's army crossed the Arkansas River at Fort Gibson, Indian territory, on the 20th ult., but was met and forced to fall back by the Federals, under Colonel Phillips. In the skirmishing that occurred Colonel Phillips lost thirty men killed.
General Hunter is reported to have notified to the Confederates that, unless the order for the execution of white officers of negro troops was immediately rescinded, he should execute every Southern officer and slaveholder in his possession.
Blockade-running at Charleston is said to be very active. Several captures of blockade runners are reported.
Admiral Foote is to relieve Admiral Dupont in the command of the South Atlantic squadron.
Commodore Lardner is to supersede Admiral Wilkes in the West Indies. It is asserted that Wilkes has been superseded in consequence of representations made at Washington by Lord Lyons.

Miscellaneous.
The Great Eastern sailed from New York on the 6th inst.
A great Democratic meeting, held in New York, has passed resolutions, declaring that the Federal Government had no right to coerce the States by military force, and recommending that hostilities should be suspended, and that a convention should be summoned to settle existing differences. Fernando Wood was the chief speaker.
Large Vallandigham meetings have been held in Buffalo, Newark, Philadelphia, and other places.
General Burnside is carrying matters with a high hand in his command, and some of his proceedings in regard to the Chicago Times, which he had suppressed, had caused apprehensions of a collision between the people and the military at Chicago. President Lincoln, moved, no doubt, by the warmth with which the Illinois Legislature was proceeding to act in the matter, has revoked General Burnside's order; and the Chicago Times has consequently reappeared.
The Chicago convention for the construction of a canal between the Mississippi and the Atlantic was very largely attended, and a committee has been appointed to make arrangements for carrying out the undertaking.
That the sympathies of the Dissenters of the South are with its struggle for independence is shown by a document published this week by the London Confederate organ, the Index. It is entitled "An Address to Christians throughout the World," and is signed by ninety-six ministers of various Christian denominations--including Methodists, Baptists, Episcopalians, Presbyterians, Lutherans, German Reformed, and some smaller bodies--of the Confederate States of America, with the annexed notice, that "its origin was from no political source whatever, but from a conference of Ministers of the Gospel in the city of Richmond." The subscribers condemn the Northern President's "emancipation proclamation" as a violation of the laws of civilised warfare and an attempted barbarity. They ask if it be possible that extermination can be desired by Christians; and finally go on to condemn abolitionism in terms as strong as those lately adopted by the Bishops of the American Church.