
Arrival of Another "Relief-Ship" From America
  

ARRIVAL OF ANOTHER "RELIEF-SHIP" FROM AMERICA.

ON the evening of Sunday week the American barque Achilles, under the command of Captain Gallagher, arrived in the Mersey from Philadelphia, with upwards of 5000 barrels of flour for the relief of the distressed operatives in Lancashire. The Achilles having been sighted off the port during the afternoon, the steam-tug Phoenix, belonging to the New Steam-Tug Company (Limited), went out and met her some distance outside the harbour. The Achilles was at once taken in tow and brought into the river, and anchored between the Prince's Landing Stage and Seacombe, in exactly the same position as that occupied by the George Griswold when that vessel anchored in the Mersey. The port pilotage and dock dues in this, as in the case of the George Griswold, were remitted, and the New Steam-Tug Company towed up the ship free of charge. On Monday morning, as soon as it became known that the Achilles was in the river, immense numbers of people visited the Prince's Landing Stage and the piers to have a look at the third of the American relief-ships. The Achilles was easily distinguished by the English ensign at the fore, her house-flag at the main, and the national emblem of the United States at the mizen. At high water the Achilles was taken in tow by the Phoenix, and docked in the Waterloo Dock, where she will at once commence to discharge her cargo. There are now three vessels in Liverpool that have brought relief from the United States to the suffering poor in Lancashire--viz., The Hope, George Griswold, and Achilles.
On Thursday week the Mayor of Liverpool (Mr. R. C. Gardner) entertained the captains of the relief-ships to a grand banquet in the Townhall. Amongst the gentlemen present were Sir William Brown, Bart., High Sheriff of Lancashire; the Mayor of Manchester, and Captain Inglefield, R.N., C.B. The speeches were chiefly expressive of the gratitude felt by Lancashire for the noble donations of the people of the Northern States, and hopes were expressed for a speedy termination of the war and the further enlargement of the bonds of amity and good will between the New and Old Worlds.