
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
We have news from New York to the 6th inst. by the City of Washington.
From the point on which at present interest mostly concentrates, Chattanooga, the intelligence is scanty. There is great discrepancy in the telegraphic statements with regard to Rosencranz's [i.e. Rosencrans's] position and prospects; but the latest news is to the effect that considerable skirmishing was taking place in the General's rear, the Confederates endeavouring to interrupt the communications between Nashville and Chattanooga; that a large number of troops had reached Rosencranz, who had established lines in front of Chattanooga; and that General Bragg was fortifying Missionary Ridge. It is also affirmed that Hooker had reinforced Rosencranz with two whole corps from Meade's army. The Southern journals report that the Confederates occupy Knoxville, and that Burnside was retiring to Cumberland Gap. In his report to the Confederate Secretary of War, General Bragg stated that, in the battle of the 20th ult., he captured 7000 prisoners, thirty-six guns, and twenty-five stand of colours. The Baltimore correspondent of the Herald, under date of the 22nd ult., states that Confederate prisoners describe Atlanta, in Georgia, as the largest dépôt and manufactory of arms and ammunition in the Confederacy, and that every preparation has been made to successfully defend it.
Nothing was very certainly known respecting the force or position of the hostile armies in Virginia; but it was admitted that the Federals had not crossed the Rapidan, though they were said to hold the fords of that stream and to be vigilantly watched by the Confederates, who were also reported to have assembled some 10,000 men at Mount Jackson for a "raid" into the Shenandoah Valley.
No progress was apparent in the Federal operations against Charleston.
A very warm reception had been given by the people and municipality of New York to the officers of the Russian squadron; and, in speeches at various entertainments, hopes were expressed that, if the United States engaged in a foreign war, Americans and Russians would fight side by side. At a dinner given to the Russian Admiral at the Metropolitan Hotel, the Admiral made a speech in which, referring to Russia, he expressed a hope that present circumstances would end peacefully. The Russians, however, were ready for any sacrifice, and, as Moscow was burned, so they would not shrink from burning St. Petersburg if necessary. If foreign nations were for peace, the Russians would receive it on honourable terms, and bless God for peace. A speaker, named Wallridge, observed that Russia, in sending a fleet to New York, wished to have it where, at a given signal, it could sweep English and French commerce from the seas. Some other silly speeches were made.
The New York Harbour Committee report the harbour to be in a perfect state of defence. Vessels passing Sandy Hook would be exposed to the fire of 800 guns of the heaviest calibre.
According to the New York Evening Post, the recent conscription had not produced more than 50,000 to 75,000 effective recruits; and President Lincoln had already resolved to order, before the end of the year, a fresh conscription of 600,000 men, under some new regulations, which would render it certain that at least 200,000 effective soldiers would be produced by it. The New York Tribune, however, denies that there will be any further draught.
The famous blockade-breaker Juno has at last fallen into the meshes of the Federal blockade. She was captured on the 22nd of September, off Wilmington, North Carolina, after a chase of four hours, during which the United States' cruiser Connecticut fired thirty rounds of shell and solid shot. The Juno threw overboard part of her cargo of cotton. She is an iron vessel of upwards of 1130 tons burden, side-wheel, built at Bristol, and is about ten years old. The cargo consisted of 200 bales of cotton, three tons of tobacco, and a quantity of turpentine; and is valued, together with the vessel, at 100,000 dols. The Juno, at the time of her capture, was bound to Bermuda. The Confederate steamer Ella and Annie arrived at Hamilton, Bermuda, on the 7th ult., with a large cargo of cotton, tobacco, and turpentine. The following is a list of Confederate vessels keeping up communication between Wilmington and other Confederate ports and Bermuda:--Robert E. Lee, A. D. Vance, Eugenie, Phantom, Gladiator, Hansa, Harriet Picknay, Nashville, Beauregard, Lady Davis, Banshee, Venus, Ella and Annie, Phoebe, Miriam, and Minho. The Boston District Court had restored the ship Banshee. The steamers Phantom and Arabia have been destroyed off Wilmington. It is reported that the steamers Advance and Elizabeth have been captured. Advices from Nassau to the 26th report that seven steamers from Wilmington and three from Charleston had arrived lately. One of the latter left Charleston eleven days after the surrender of Forts Wagner and Gregg, proving that the port is not closed.