
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The steamers Edinburgh and Moravian bring news from New York to the 22nd ult.
President Lincoln's funeral was solemnised with great state at Washington on the 19th ult. A procession of civil, military, and naval officers, including President Johnson, General Grant, Admiral Farragut, Butler, and the foreign Ministers followed the remains. Business was entirely suspended throughout the North. The body of the President was removed from Washington on the 21st ult., and arrived in Baltimore at ten o'clock. From the railway station in the latter city an immense civic and military procession attended its conveyance to the Exchange, where it remained until two o'clock in the afternoon. Thence it was conveyed to Harrisburg, reaching there in the evening. Next day the body would arrive at Philadelphia, and remain there till the 24th ult., whence it would be taken on to New York, arriving on the morning of the 24th. The remains would lie in state until the hour for the grand procession to move on the following day. Thence the body would be taken to Albany, Buffalo, Cleveland, Columbus, Indianapolis, and Chicago, to Springfield, public honours being paid to the remains in each place.
All civil, military, and naval officers have been ordered to wear mourning for Mr. Lincoln for six months.
We now learn how deep and universal were the horror and grief throughout the northern states at the assassination of Mr. Lincoln. The foreign Ministers have sent a deputation to convey to Mr. Lincoln's family expressions of their sympathy; the British and French residents in New York have held a meeting, at which resolutions expressive of deep sympathy were passed; and the Confederate prisoners at Point Look Out have passed resolutions of abhorrence at Mr. Lincoln's assassination, and expressing sympathy for his family. Of the feelings called forth in this and other countries by the atrocious deed some mention is made in other parts of this Journal.
Mr. Seward, by latest accounts, was better, and he sat up for a short time on the 18th ult. Some bandages and wires around his neck, for the support of his broken jaw, saved him, it is said, from fatal wounds. It is even premised that the wounds did him a service; for, upon the same evening on which the attack was made, the Secretary's surgical attendants had decided to lance his cheek, in order to relieve it from an extraordinary pressure of blood. Mr. Frederick Seward was also improving. He has regained consciousness.
Booth, it appears, is still at large, but the man supposed to have been his accomplice, and who made the dastardly attack on Mr. Seward, has been arrested at Washington. His name is Surratt, and Mr. Seward's servants are said to have identified him. It is also said that a resident of Baltimore has confessed to complicity in the design, and been arrested, but there is really no trustworthy intelligence of either of the villains. A large reward has been offered for their discovery. The assassin of the President left behind him a hat and a spur. The hat was picked up in the President's box, and has been identified as one belonging to the suspected man Booth; the spur had dropped upon the stage, and that also has been identified as one procured at a stable where the same man hired a horse in the evening. A letter of Booth, written several months ago, shows that he was plotting the capture of Mr. Lincoln, but gives no intimation that he contemplated assassination.
The Diplomatic Corps have visited President Johnson. Baron Gerolt, Prussian Ambassador, read an address of condolence, and expressed hopes for the early re-establishment of peace and the maintenance of friendly relations with foreign Powers.
Sir Frederick Bruce has presented his credentials. He expressed deep sympathy at Mr. Lincoln's death, and said that her Majesty had nothing more at heart than to cultivate relations of amity and a good understanding, so long happily existing between England and America. In this spirit he was directed to perform his duties. Mr. Johnson expressed pleasure at her Majesty's friendly sentiments, and said that the interests of civilisation and humanity required that England and America should be friends. He always accepted it as an honourable fact that the Queen was a sincere and honest well-wisher of the United States.
President Johnson has made several speeches in reply to the addresses of delegates from different parts of the Union; but he has afforded no definite indications of his policy, though he has repeated his declaration that treason is the highest crime, and that traitors must be punished.
It is alleged that Mr. Johnson's intoxication on the day of his inauguration as Vice-President was a most exceptional occurrence, the combined result of natural excitement and two glasses of spirits taken by medical advice. It is affirmed that Mr. Johnson is not a dram-drinker, but habitually a sober man in the strictest sense of the word. We gladly take this view of the case. Still, the fact must weigh against him that he suffered himself to be "overtaken" (to use the mildest euphemism at one's command) on such an august occasion. From the memoir of the new President--given, with a Portrait, in another part of this Journal--it will be seen with what energy he raised himself, step by step, from his originally obscure condition; and it is to be hoped, for the welfare of his country as well as for his own credit, that his good genius will not desert him now that he has attained the summit of man's ambition. President Johnson evidently feels the weight of responsibility cast upon him, and has borne himself with a dignity and prudence which are reassuring.
Mr. Johnson having vacated the vice-presidency, the office devolves upon Mr. Lafayette S. Foster, of Connecticut. According to the laws of the United States, in case of the death of both the President and Vice-President, the President pro tempore of the Senate becomes Chief Magistrate.
The greatest order continues throughout the Northern States.
General Anderson formally replaced the United States flag on Fort Sumter on Friday, the 14th ult., when the Rev. Ward Beecher and others delivered patriotic addresses.
General Lee has arrived at Richmond, where he was enthusiastically received both by the Unionists and Confederates. Lee's farewell order says that, after four years of arduous service, marked by unsurpassed courage, the army had been compelled to yield to overwhelming numbers and resources, and had surrendered to avoid useless sacrifice of life.
It is reported from Richmond that Mr. Jefferson Davis and his Cabinet have reached Augusta and established a Government there, preparatory to flight to the Transmississippi Department.
The surrender of General Johnston, which, under existing circumstances, could not long be delayed, is announced, but not as yet upon what appears to be trustworthy authority. Mosby also is said to have laid down his arms, and Rosser is stated to have made propositions to the same effect. After a series of hard fights the Confederates were driven from the outworks of Mobile, and on the 12th ult. it was found that they had evacuated the place. This was their last seaport. An expedition from Charleston has destroyed 1000 bales of cotton, and all the railway bridges between Columbia and Florence, and has brought in 2500 slaves. 5000 more are waiting to come in.
The latest quotation of gold at New York was about 49½ per cent premium.
The New York Chamber of Commerce has passed resolutions of condolence on account of the death of Richard Cobden.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The murder of President Lincoln has called forth in the British Provinces the utmost indignation and numerous expressions of deep sympathy with the Northern States at their bereavement. The Governor of Nova Scotia, in consequence of the assassination, postponed his intended visit, and recommended the adjournment of the Legislature as a mark of sympathy. The day of the solemnisation of President Lincoln's funeral in Washington (the 19th ult.) was observed in the principal cities of the provinces by a partial suspension of business and the closing of the public buildings.