
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Saxonia and City of Washington we have New York journals of the 18th and telegrams, viâ Cape Race, to the 21st ult.

War News.

General M'Clellan's head-quarters are still at Harper's Ferry. On the 16th two reconnaissances en force were made across the Potomac by Generals Hancock and Woodbury. Having succeeded in ascertaining the whereabouts of General Lee, the two divisions returned to Bolivar Heights. General M'Clellan concludes his report thus:--"There is no doubt that the rebel Generals intend to give battle at or near their present location. The indications are that they will not have to wait long before they again meet the army of the Potomac." It is, however, stated that General M'Clellan's army is unable to advance on account of short supplies of clothing and shoes for the troops.

The Confederate General Stuart made good his retreat into Virginia, recrossing the Potomac at Edward's Ferry, carrying away 1000 horses and large quantities of boots end clothing taken in Pennsylvania. During this successful raid the Confederates passed entirely round the army of the Potomac. The Confederates have respected private houses, but have torn up the railway tracks and damaged a considerable amount of Government property along their route.

The Southern accounts of the battle of Perrysville, Kentucky, differ from the Northern reports in claiming the victory and capture of 9000 Federal prisoners during the battle.

The Confederates, under General Morgan, captured Lexington, Kentucky, and took 100 prisoners. He speedily evacuated the place, and met the Federal forces, under General Dumont, between Versailles and Frankfort. It is reported that after a short engagement the Confederates scattered. Morgan afterwards captured a train of eighty Federal waggons near Bardstown.

General Butler has left New Orleans to inspect the condition of affairs at Pensacola. A Federal foraging expedition has been sent up the Mississippi in transports. The expedition captured a quantity of cattle, but eighteen men were killed on board the transports by the Confederate batteries erected at the Levels. A free negro regiment has been called out for service in New Orleans. Slavery has already been abolished in and around New Orleans. The late slaves are now working for their late masters as hired labourers.

Miscellaneous.
The draught has been resisted in Ohio and Pennsylvania. The Irish miners of Luzerne county, Pennsylvania, acted so riotously that the military were called out and fired upon the insurgents, killing four or five.

The New York Chamber of Commerce has passed resolutions stating that the destruction of the ship Brilliant by the Confederate steamer Alabama is a crime against humanity. The Chamber of Commerce has not failed to notice the change in British sentiments, transforming a friendly nation into a Power the nature of whose neutrality is shown by its permitting ships to go forth and armaments to follow them for the work of plundering and destroying American vessels, thus encouraging upon the high seas an offence against neutral rights, upon the plea of which, in the case of the Trent, England threatened to plunge the American Government into war. The Chamber has heard with amazement that other vessels are fitting out in British ports to continue the work of destruction begun by the Alabama. It is the duty of the Chamber of Commerce to warn British merchants that a repetition of such acts as burning the Brilliant, by vessels fitted out in England and manned by British seamen, cannot fail to produce widespread exasperation in America. The Chamber therefore invokes the influence of all men who value peace and goodwill among all nations to prevent the departure of other vessels of the same character from their ports, and thus avoid the calamity of war. The resolutions close by declaring that it is the desire and interest of Americans to cherish and maintain sentiments of amity with England. Copies of the resolutions are to be forwarded to the British Board of Trade. The captures affected by the Alabama have injuriously affected the freights for American shipping.

Brigadier-General Davis, who recently assassinated General Nelson in Louisville, Kentucky, has been released from arrest, and will probably be ordered to duty soon.

The Democratic party throughout the Free States has taken ground against the emancipation proclamation of the President and against the suspension of the writ of habeas corpus. A letter from General Scott to Mr. Lincoln, dated Marsh 2, 1861, has been brought out by them. General Scott therein recommends that the "wayward sisters be allowed to go in peace."

The Democrats on this platform have carried the States of Ohio and Indiana. The Republicans have carried Iowa and fifteen out of twenty-four members of Congress in Pennsylvania. It is yet uncertain which party has carried the State ticket in the latter State.

The Sioux Indians in Minnesota had ceased hostilities and were surrendering themselves to the Federal authorities.

Gold had risen to a premium of 32 per cent.