
Echoes of the Week

ECHOES OF THE WEEK.
...In America, History notes not so much the failure of Grant's expedition and the struggle for the presidency as the first influential cry for a further division of the once great Republic. Colonel Anderson, brother to Major Anderson, who defended Fort Sumter, writes a letter full of Americanisms and plain sense. "Rampant war has yoked her red dragons to her iron car, and all humanity is trampled under foot. Our generals blush behind the buckler of Mars, and that she-devil Bellona lights us on. I am for peace; for a total and immediate cessation of war. I am tired of Yankee taskmasters; I hate their selfish meanness. Let us have a Western Confederacy!" Elsewhere Colonel Anderson wishes to follow "the bright sparkling waters of the Ohio, down to the father of the waters--down to the ocean of peace;" adding, "The original Union is dissolved; no man is fool enough to doubt it. The Union is dissolved." Now, although this may remind one of Elijah Pogram, and the bright home of the American eagle being in the settin' sun, still it is a great sign of the times. Many men must think with this honest gentleman, and, if so, the beginning of the end, although a long end, perhaps, of the American war has commenced....
Two celebrated personages--one being an abstraction--may be placed in the obituary. The abstraction is The Owl, which, after No. 1006 (it began at No. 1001), ceases to be. It contained early information of marriages, and picked up the whispers of the Foreign Office. The other is "Manhattan," the New York correspondent of the Standard, a writer who always amused, but never instructed. He held a dashing pen, which many will miss; he overthrew alike propriety and grammar; and his vivid pictures were like those figures which pass before a concave mirror--you saw them plainly enough, but the next moment forgot them. Peace be to his ashes! A rabid Northerner at one time, he had honestly thought himself round to General Scott's opinion, and wanted to let the "wayward sisters go in peace."