
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
The Arabia has brought us New York advices of the 2nd inst.
President Lincoln, on the 26th ult., issued a proclamation defining and restricting his previous amnesty proclamation.
An order from the War Department has been promulgated by General Meade, which consolidates the troops of the Potomac army into three corps. There had been no important movement in Virginia; but the Confederates were believed to be strengthening their positions on the Rapidan, and General Grant was at Fortress Monroe, where he was supposed to be consulting General Butler respecting his plans for the campaign.
The expedition up the Red River at latest dates was making por-progress. Alexandria was occupied on the 16th ult. The Confederates on the north and south of the river were concentrating at Shrevesport. Fort de Russy was accidentally blown up, killing four men. A reconnaissance seventy-five miles above Alexandria engaged the Confederates, capturing 200 prisoners and four pieces of artillery.
An attack by the Confederate General Forrest upon Union City, Western Tennessee, on the 24th ult., resulted in the capture of the town and 500 Federals. Immediately afterwards, Forrest entered Kentucky, and on the 25th occupied Paducah, on the Ohio River, from which he removed many valuable spoils. He also attacked the fort, but for want of heavy cannon was compelled to desist. Two Federal gun-boats from Cairo opened fire to dislodge his forces, during which a large portion of the city was destroyed. Forrest then retired to Eddysville, thirty-five miles east of Paducah.
A conflict between the soldiers and civilians (or, as another despatch says, between Copperheads and Republicans) occurred at Charleston, Illinois, on the 28th ult., in which between twenty and thirty contrabands were killed or wounded. The civilians (Copperheads) were driven from the town, but have intrenched themselves at Gidding's Mills. Outbreaks in other districts in Illinois are also threatened. General Heintzelman, commanding that department, has called for 5000 troops to suppress insurrection.