
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
The most important news from the United States has reference to France and Mexico. It was telegraphed that a Cabinet Council had been held at Washington to take into consideration a report that France was raising troops in Egypt for service in Mexico, and that the result had been announced in a despatch of Mr. Seward to the French Government declaring that the United States Government would not permit additional troops to be sent to Mexico by France, and that any further intervention might lead to a serious misunderstanding between the two countries. The Moravian, however, which left New York on the 7th inst., brings the official information that the United States Government has taken no recent action, nor contemplates any, inconsistent with absolute neutrality between the belligerents in Mexico.
Mr. Seward and his son Frederick have left Washington for Auburn, New York, on a visit, for ten days.
Mr. Davis has been removed from the casemates to other (we hope better) quarters in Fort Monroe.
General Lee was formally inaugurated President of Washington College, Lexington, Virginia, on the 2nd inst. The friendliest feeling was shown.
Most of the State Conventions, which were engaged in the work of framing new Constitutions, have resolved, while admitting the black population to all other civil rights, that they shall not be admitted to the franchise.
The North Carolina Convention, on the 6th inst., passed a resolution declaring the secession ordinance null and void and calling into life the original Constitution of the State.
The Mississippi State elections had passed off quietly, and General Humphrey had been elected Governor, who had, it was said, been pardoned by the President.
The Louisiana Democratic Convention have nominated J. M. Welis as Governor. They have approved Mr. Johnson's reorganisation policy, and have determined to exclude religious and sectional controversies, on the ground that the Federal Government was made to be perpetuated for the exclusive political benefit of the white race. The convention urged that a constitutional convocation should be summoned, and resolved to request Congress to grant compensation for the losses caused by emancipation. Finally, the convention prayed the Government for a general amnesty and a prompt restoration of property.
The following is the text of the abolition ordinance passed in the Alabama Convention on the 22nd ult.:--"Be it ordained by the people of the State of Alabama in convention assembled, that, as the institution of slavery has been destroyed in the State of Alabama, hereafter there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in this State otherwise than for the punishment of crime, whereof the party shall be duly convicted. And be it further ordained that the Constitution be amended by striking out all provisions in relation to slaves and slavery. And be it further ordained, that it shall be the duty of the Legislature, at its next Session, to pass such laws as will protect the freed men of this State in the full enjoyment of all their rights of person and property and guard them and the State against all the evil that may arise from their sudden emancipation."
Cairo despatches report the destruction of 3500 bales of cotton by an incendiary fire at Memphis, on the 1st. Five thousand eight hundred bales of cotton in Mobile were also destroyed by incendiary flies on the night of the 5th and morning of the 6th.
The public debt amounts in English money to 549 millions sterling. The Secretary of the Treasury has announced his intention to issue bonds to the amount of fifty millions of dollars in exchange for the notes which fall due before January next.
It is reported that Mr. Ralph Waldo Emerson lost his entire property by the late Concord Bank robbery, with the exception of his homestead.
An enthusiastic meeting of the Fenian Brotherhood was held at the Courthouse, Nashville, Tennessee, on the 4th inst. Speeches were made and sundry resolutions adopted. A large meeting of the brotherhood in Tennessee was held at Memphis, on the evening of the 3rd. A special general congress of the entire order of Fenians had been summoned to meet at Philadelphia, to consider the course affairs are taking in Ireland.