
Foreign Intelligence


FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.

By the steamer Europa we have journals from New York to the 6th inst., and telegrams viâ Halifax to the 8th inst.

War News.

The struggle before Murfreesboro', in Tennessee, ended--after a five days' struggle and severe slaughter on both sides--in the retreat of the Confederates, during the night of the 3rd inst., to Sullahoma, thirty miles distant, on the line of the Nashville and Chattanooga Railway. The Federal General Rosencranz has occupied Murfreesboro', but was not able to pursue General Bragg's army, which retired in good order. The Federals acknowledge a loss of 1000 killed and 5500 wounded--of several thousand prisoners and 23 pieces of artillery. Generals Willich and Fry are among the prisoners. The Confederate loss is estimated at 4500 killed and wounded and 1000 prisoners. Twenty negro teamsters, surprised in the rear of the Federal army by the Confederate cavalry, were immediately shot by their captors.

Five thousand Federal cavalry have made a raid from Kentucky into East Tennessee, and destroyed nine miles of the East Tennessee and Virginia Railroad, near Knoxville, thus preventing reinforcements from Richmond reaching General Bragg.

Despatches from General Grant to General Halleck report that General Sullivan defeated the Confederates under General Forrest, at Lexington, Tennessee, on the 1st inst., capturing six cannons and many prisoners. The Confederate loss in killed and wounded is put down at 1400 men, and that of the Federals at 800.

General Sherman invested Vicksburg, in the Lower Mississippi, with 40,000 men, Commodore Farragut's gun-boats co-operating. The fighting lasted five days, with varying success. The Federals fought their way to within two miles of the city, capturing three lines of works, when they were assailed by fresh forces under General Joe Johnston. After a hand-to-hand fight, the Federals were driven back to their first line of defence, with the loss of General Morgan and 3000 men. The Confederates have concentrated their forces from Jackson and Grenada at Vicksburg.

The celebrated iron-clad Monitor, the first-born of Mr. Ericsson's military genius, sprang a leak, while off Cape Hatteras, on the 31st., and sank. The Monitor was being towed by the steamer Rhode Island, which succeeded in saving a portion of the officers and crew. Five officers and nineteen men belonging to the two vessels were lost. One theory of her loss is that the sea rushed down her turret.

At New Orleans General Banks had released 112 State prisoners sentenced by General Butler. He had also issued an order permitting the clergy of New Orleans to resume their functions under certain restrictions.

A large proportion of the officers of the Kentucky regiments had sent in their resignations in consequence of the issue of Mr. Lincoln's latest proclamation. The volunteers from this State share the sentiments of their officers.

Miscellaneous.

General Halleck has rescinded the order of General Grant excluding all Jews from his department.

General Butler had arrived at Washington, and dined with Mr. Seward. He was also the object of a popular manifestation in his favour at the National Hotel.

The large hall of the Cooper Institute, New York, was crowded on the 5th inst. to its fullest capacity by an audience of white and coloured people of both sexes to celebrate the Emancipation Proclamation. Representatives of the European, African, and mulatto races occupied the platform. Speeches were made by the Rev. Dr. Cheever, Lewis Tappan, and the Rev. Mr. Denison of the white race; and by the Rev. H. H. Garnet, the Rev. J.S. Raymond, Professor W. J. Brown, the Rev. Mr. Kane, and other speakers of the African or mixed races.

The returns of the annual immigration at the port of New York show that the number of immigrants was 76,000, or 15,000 more than in 1861. The German immigration exceeded the Irish in 1862. That from England follows third.

Owing chiefly to the astonishing and sudden development of the American grain trade with Europe, 1862 was a peculiarly favourable year to the interests of American railroads and canals. The New York canals, which only earned 900,000 dols. surplus revenues in 1858, paid over to the State which owns them 4,000 000 dols. in 1862. The principal lines of railroad have paid higher dividends than during the former years of peace. Some of them, as the New York and Erie, and Illinois Central railroads, which either never paid, or long since ceased to pay, dividends, commenced to pay them in 1862.

Gold has risen to 36 per cent premium.

Governor Seymour's Message.

The message of the newly-elected Democratic Governor of the State of New York was delivered to the Legislature on the 7th. He says, when commenting on national affairs:--
The truths of the financial and military situation must not be kept back. There must be no attempt to put down free expression of public opinion. Affrighted at the ruin they have wrought, the authors of our calamities, North and South, insist that it was caused by an unavoidable contest about slavery. This has been the subject, not the cause, of the controversy. We are to look for the causes of the war in the pervading disregard of obligations of laws and constitutions, in disrespect for constituted authority; above all, in the local prejudices which have grown up in the two portions of the Atlantic States at the two extremes of our country. There is no honest statement of our difficulties which does not teach that our people must reform themselves as well as the conduct of the Government and the policy of our rulers. It is not too late to save the country if we will enter upon our sacred duty in a right spirit and in the right way. When we do, the effect will be soon felt throughout the land and by the civilised world. We shall then strengthen the Government, weaken the rebellion, and unite our people; and the world will recognise our capacity for self-government when we show that we are capable of self reform.
The Governor condemns the exercise of martial power as destructive of the rights of States and of the judicial and legislative powers of the general Government. He declares the President's proclamation to be

Impolitic, unjust, and unconstitutional; calculated to raise many barriers to the restoration of the Union; likely to be misconstrued by the world as an abandonment of the hope of restoring it--a result to which New York is nobly opposed, and which will be effectually resisted. The Union will be restored by the Central and Western States, both free and slave, who are exempt from the violent passions which bear control at the extremes. Those central Slave States which rejected the ordinance of secession, which sought to remain in the Union, and which were driven away by a contemptuous and uncompromising policy, must be brought back. The National Constitution must be held inviolate, and the rights of States must be respected as not less sacred. A consolidated Government would destroy the home rights and liberties of the people. The suppression of journals and the imprisonment of persons have been glaringly partisan.

The Governor contends that though the seceded States may have forfeited their right to appeal to the Constitution, not a single right of the people of the loyal States can be suspended. He denies that the civil war in the South takes away from the people of the loyal North the benefits of one principle of civil liberty. He promises support to the armies in the field, and obedience to all the constitutional demands of the general Government. Under no circumstances can the division of the Union be conceded.