
London, Saturday, September 6, 1862


London, Saturday, September 6, 1862.
----
We have another State paper from America, in the form of a message from President Davis. It is a temperate document, designed to encourage the South, and to promote among strangers the belief that the Confederate interest is consolidating and that it comprehends administrative duties. It was not to be expected, however, that such an address should be entirely devoid of hard words; and the most is made of the conduct of Pope and Butler, and of the atrocities imputed to the Federals. We also learn that the South will not tolerate the employment of negro arms in the quarrel, but intimates that all black prisoners will be sold for what they will bring, and that all white prisoners who have commanded them shall he treated as felons, which, under the circumstances, may be held to mean that they are to be hanged. The enormous prices offered for recruits for the North, and the consideration that it is better to be paid for soldiering than to be pressed and taken gratis, have had their effect upon the new levy, and the materials for a fresh army are coming in. Perhaps General M'Clellan may be intrusted with the work of manipulating these materials--a duty for which the most malicious of his enemies, even Mr. Stanton, cannot deny M'Clellan's fitness. The system of espionage and arrest continued in full force, and a handsome batch of disaffected parsons were daily sent off to prison, though a mere instalment of those who will be incarcerated, should it be true that Butler is to be placed as military Governor at New York. We have no valuable information as to any other military movement than the retreat of General M'Clellan, who is credited with having taken a leaf from the book of the Southern leaders, and having shown himself a master of escape. Rumours of battles are rife, and it is now clear that the last Confederate exploit was a real success, but we are uninformed as to the fact of there having been an important conflict. All the avenues of intelligence from the Federal camps are carefully closed, all reporters are sent away, and the manufacture of guesswork correspondence, though not suppressed, is conducted under rather disagreeable conditions. Except that some of the Roman Catholics and some of the Irish are very loud in their appeals to the North to go on vigorously with the war, that the leading Abolitionists are talking unpunished treason while uninfluential men are dragged off to gaol, and that the New York press is exhausting every form of bluster in regard to the grand preparations that are being made, and the necessity of utterly annihilating the South, and recolonising it, if necessary, we have no news of interest from the Western scene of war.