
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
We have news, by the Jura and the Edinburgh, from New York to the 10th inst.
It was rumoured in New York that Mobile had surrendered to Admiral Farragut, and that the Confederate garrison had withdrawn into the interior; but the rumour proceeded from Confederate deserters who had come over to General Grant's army, and must be received with circumspection. It was, however, known in New York that Admiral Farragut had succeeded in blowing up the steamer Nashville, which the Confederates had sunk in the channel over Dog River Bar.
General Sherman's report of the capture of Atlanta, Georgia, has been published. Sherman withdrew on the 30th ult. from around Atlanta and reached a point to strike the Macon-road; Howard, with the right, being near Jonesboro'; Schofield, with the left, near Rough and Ready; and Thomas, with the centre, at Couch's. The Federals, finding the enemy at Jonesboro', intrenched themselves. Sherman, meeting with strong opposition along the road, advanced his left and centre to the railroad, and broke it from Rough and Ready down to Howard's left, near Jonesboro'. By the same movement Sherman interposed his army between Atlanta and that portion of the enemy intrenched at Jonesboro'. There Sherman made a general attack upon the enemy, capturing their works, ten guns, and 1000 prisoners. The Confederates retreated south during the night, Sherman following them to their lines, near Lovejoy's Station. Hood, at Atlanta, finding Sherman on his only road of supply, and between him and part of his army, retreated during the night from Atlanta after blowing up the magazines. The 20th Corps of the Federal army then occupied the city, General Sherman reported, on the 7th inst., that he had pursued General Hood's army to the rear of Lovejoy's Station, thirty miles south of Atlanta, and had there found the Confederates, intrenched. He had consequently withdrawn to Atlanta, as the great object of his campaign, the capture of that city, had been attained. The fruits of his successful operations, during which he had lost 1500 men, were twenty-seven guns and 3000 prisoners.
President Lincoln ordered a day of thanksgiving (kept on Sunday, the 11th inst.) for the victories at Atlanta and Mobile, and tendered his thanks to Admiral Farragut and General Sherman. Salutes were ordered in honour of the victories.
General Early was, at the latest accounts, still confronting General Sheridan in the Shenandoah Valley.
It is stated that General Lee had drawn large reinforcements from Early and had concentrated a great force for the purpose of attacking General Grant's left. Indeed, according to both Federal and Confederate accounts, both Grant and Lee were concentrating their forces about Petersburg, and it is believed that a great battle for the possession of the Weldon Railway was imminent. A letter has been written by Grant declaring that the Confederates have in their ranks their last man, and that, if the North continue undivided, the end of the war is not far distant.
General Gillam has surprised and killed the guerrilla General Morgan, at Greenville, Tennessee, capturing his staff.
The draught in New York and Brooklyn will not take place.
General M'Clellan has accepted the nomination of the Chicago Convention. He declares for the Union at all hazards, and says a spirit of conciliation and compromise must be exercised, but union is the one condition of peace. Any State willing to return to the Union should be received at once, with full constitutional rights. A large enthusiastic meeting for the ratification of ratification of M'Clellan's nomination to the presidency has been held in New York.
Secretary Seward made a speech at Auburn, New York, recently, in which he declared that the salvation of the Union depends upon the election of Mr. Lincoln; that slavery is no longer an issue of the war, and will not be interfered with after peace is restored; and that the Democratic party is aiding and abetting the rebellion. He also stated that no draught will be necessary, as the armies are recruited as rapidly as required by volunteering.
It is reported that General Fremont has withdrawn his name as presidential candidate.
There had been extraordinary fluctuations and a great decline in the premium on gold at New York; and the last quotation was 228.