
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
...After some hesitation on the part of the Hon. M. Edmonds, who represents the United States Government, the further proceedings in connection with the trial of the St. Albans raiders have been transferred from St. John to Montreal. The Judges at Montreal had refused to grant a writ of habeas corpus for the raiders, on the ground that they were still under the magistrates' jurisdiction, and that no commitment had been made. A judicial investigation into the affair, under the Ashburton Treaty, was in progress at Montreal....
AMERICA.
We had hoped that the New York or the City of Glasgow would have brought us news of the result of the presidential election. Both these steamers have, however, arrived without bringing the eagerly-desired intelligence. They were off Cape Race on the 9th inst., a day after the election, but the weather, unhappily, was too thick to communicate. Possibly we shall be able to give the information in our town edition.
There is little war news of moment. Grant's army has returned to its former position. It has been ascertained that the country around the Southside Railroad is strongly fortified. During the movement the Confederates on the Boylton plank-road charged the right flank of the 2nd Corps at a point where the connection between the 2nd and 5th Corps was not formed. The New York Times' correspondent asserts that this forced Grant to withdraw his troops to a safer position. During Butler's movement General Weitzel assaulted the Confederate position on the Williamsburg road, but was repulsed with heavy loss. Grant lost 1500 men, and captured 800 prisoners. On Sunday, the 30th ult., the Confederates penetrated into Grant's lines for some distance between the 2nd and 5th Corps, taking numerous prisoners. They afterwards charged the breastworks, but were repulsed. According to the latest accounts, Grant's troops were engaged in building loghouses, an apparent indication that they expected to winter in their present positions.
There have been no fresh movements in the Shenandoah Valley.
The accounts respecting the movements of General Hood's and General Sherman's armies are obscure and uncertain. Hood, as stated in our last Number, had attacked Decatur, and been repulsed with the loss of four guns and a hundred prisoners.
The Confederate iron-clad ram Albemarle, which had caused much uneasiness to the Federals in the inner waters of North Carolina, has been destroyed. One launch was sunk by the Confederate fire, and nearly its entire crew lost. It appears that the destruction of the ram was accomplished by a boat with a "torpedo attachment." A naval correspondent of the New York Times states that the Federals have six boats, about the size of a ship's launch, fitted up with torpedo apparatus. The mode of operation he does not describe.
The United States gun-boat Undine was captured by the Confederates at Fort Herman on the Tennessee River.
The Tallahassee and the Chickamauga, the two Confederate cruisers which escaped from Wilmington, had destroyed six vessels off the Northern coast; and a third Confederate privateer was also said to be at sea, and to have made a capture.
President Davis had appointed the 16th inst. for a day of thanksgiving for recent successes of the Confederate arms.
The Richmond Sentinel, the organ of the Confederate Government, recommends the arming of the slaves.
President Lincoln has proclaimed the Nevada territory a State of the Union.
At a mass meeting of merchants and bankers, held in Wall-street, in favour of M'Clellan, President Lincoln's abolition policy was condemned, and it was resolved that the financial and commercial interests of the country required a change of administration.
The war democracy have held a meeting in New York. General Dix read an address refusing to support the Chicago nominee or platform and recommending the reorganisation of the democracy.
Secretary Seward had announced to the Mayors of Buffalo and New York that he had received information of the existence of a conspiracy in Canada to send incendiaries into the principal Northern cities on the day of the presidential election. The Mayor of New York had replied that he disbelieved the information, but was prepared to maintain the public safety; and the Democratic journals accused the Government of inventing the whole story in order to have a pretext for proclaiming martial law.
A Democratic torchlight procession was attacked on the night of the 30th ult. in Philadelphia, and a serious fight ensued, in which a number of persons were severely injured and two killed.
The new Constitution has been officially proclaimed in Maryland by Governor Bradford, the Court of Appeal having refused to issue an order striking out the soldiers' votes. The majority claimed is 475. Maryland is therefore declared a free State from the 1st of November. Salutes in honour of the event have been fired in Baltimore.
The military commission have condemned Donahue and Ferry, New York State agents at Baltimore accused of forging soldiers' votes, to imprisonment for life.
The price of gold has again risen--the latest quotation being 146 per cent premium.