
[Silver Peak]

Silver Peak is believed to be as pre-eminent over all silver mountains as the Iron Mountain of Missouri is superior to all other iron deposits. Silver Peak is situated east of San Francisco, on the eastern side of the Sierra Nevada, and nearly one degree south of the city of Austin. It is some two miles from Castle Mount, an old extinct crater, about 5000 ft. above ocean level. Near Silver Peak is an extensive deposit of salt, and not far distant a hill of pure sulphur. The whole country has a naked appearance, being quite destitute of vegetation, and bristles with mountains scattered over a plain of great extent. The dreaded "Valley of Death," upon the plains of which, along the "old Spanish trail," travellers have suffered so much, lies but a short distance to the south-east of the crater of Silver Peak. Little Salt Lake, in Southern Utah, lies directly east of Silver Peak. At first the searchers after deposits of the precious metals confined their searches to the Pacific side of the Sierra Nevada; but discoveries in New Mexico, Arizona, and Virginia city induced a thorough examination of the east side of the Sierra Nevada. This resulted in great success, the most brilliant of which is found in the neighbourhood of Austin, on the line of the great overland mail, where a city has sprung up within three years which, Senator Nye says, contains a population of 10,000. From along this line of exploration the miners are rapidly extending their operations, both north and south. Recently (within six months) they came upon this immense deposit near Castle Mount. Twelve exceedingly rich lodes, or "ledges" as the miners call them, were discovered on that single mountain. This discovery in an unexpected region is believed to be the most valuable yet developed. The specimens--a great number of which have been brought to New York by Colonel Catherwood--are certainly very remarkable, and merit the attention of the whole financial community. If there is no mistake--and with the specimens actually before us we do not see how there can be--a new deposit, superior even to the Comstock lode, which has furnished so many millions of silver, is about to pour into our market its limitless supply of this precious metal.--New York Journal of Commerce.