
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
UNITED STATES.
We have news from New York to the 26th ult.
The commission for trying Captain Wirtz on charges of conspiring, with other Southern leaders, to murder Federal prisoners, and with having actually murdered several, was set aside during the trial, and a new commission substituted, omitting the names of Generals Lee, Seddon, and Northrop. Wirtz's counsel objected to fresh proceedings, and asked for time to prepare the defence. Eventually, however, he abandoned the case. The President of the Court then appointed the Judge-Advocate to defend Wirtz. Charges of horrible cruelty are made against him, among others, "that he kept bloodhounds to hunt down prisoners of war escaped from his custody, and that he caused several of the prisoners to be inoculated with poisonous matter."
The Mississippi Convention has repealed the Secession ordinance, and all others, except the revenue one, passed during the war. It has passed the State constitutional amendment for the abolition of slavery, and has memorialised President Johnson to pardon Mr. Davis. President Johnson telegraphed to the Governor of Mississippi, congratulating him on the progress made by that State towards readmission to the Union. He also said that the Habeas Corpus Act would be restored and the troops withdrawn as soon as the State had progressed sufficiently to have returned to her allegiance.
The Pennsylvania Democratic Convention has given Mr. Johnson its qualified support. It demands that measures shall be passed to give the South immediate congressional representation and to save them from negro suffrage.
The American ironclad fleet has nearly all been ordered out of commission, and is to be laid up at League Island, on the Delaware River, a few miles below Philadelphia.
The steamer Brother Jonathan, from San Francisco for Portland, was wrecked near Cape Lincoln. She had from 200 to 300 passengers on board, who were all lost with the exception of fifteen.
Ford's Theatre, at Washington, is being converted into a fire-proof building, in which all the captured archives of the Southern Confederacy will be kept. They will be under the charge of Dr. Francis Lieber, of New York.
Mr. William Cullen Bryant has purchased the homestead, in his native town, of Cummington, Hampshire county, Mass., and is refitting it for a summer residence. He has been spending part of the summer there.
A Soldiers' Messenger Corps has been established in New York, after the example of the London corps of Commissionnaires.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
Advices from Quebec to Aug. 26 state that in the Canadian House of Commons, on Mr. Galt moving that the House do go into Committee of Supply, Mr. Holton made an important amendment relative to the enlargement of the St. Lawrence Canals, in connection with the Reciprocity Treaty with the United States. After a long debate, in which the Reciprocity Treaty and the scheme of the Confederacy was fully discussed, the amendment was negatived by a vote of 78 to 20.