
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
We have intelligence from America to the 16th inst., brought by the City of New York steamer.
The House of Representatives has adopted the resolution concerning the admission of Southern members as amended by the Senate, but subsequently passeedpassed a resolution on its own account as stringent against the South as the original one. A resolution indorsing the President's reconstruction policy was not allowed to be introduced.
The Senate has considered the question of the admission of Southern members, and had permitted to those for Tennessee the privilege of the floor. Mr. Wilson's bill, declaring null all laws of the Southern States recognising any inequality in civil rights on account of colour, has been called up and discussed.
Three fourths of the States having ratified the Constitutional amendment abolishing slavery, it is now the supreme law.
The Secretary of the Treasury has announced that Spain and Chili will not be permitted to bring prizes into Federal ports.
The split in the Fenian camp is complete. The senate has impeached and deposed the president, O'Mahony, for malfeasance and misappropriation of funds, and had elected W. R. Roberts in his room. O'Mahony has refused to recognise the validity of this deposition, and both senate and president are supported by large bodies of the Fenian brotherhood. Roberts has issued an address calling upon the Fenians to act promptly and smash up England. It is said that the Fenians have about £400,000 in hand; a sum sufficient to maintain the members of the Fenian cabinet in splendour for some time, but scarcely large enough, one would think, to enable the Fenians to "smash up England."
Resolutions had been introduced into Congress, and referred to the Committee on Foreign Affairs, declaring the establishment of the Mexican empire by France to be opposed to the declared policy of the Federal Government, offensive to the people, and contrary to the spirit of their institutions. The resolutions further require the President "to take such steps concerning this grave matter as will vindicate the recognised policy, and protect the honour and interest of the American Government." Both Houses had requested the President to furnish papers respecting Mexico.
These resolutions have, it seems, stimulated the French Minister to action. He has opened a correspondence with Mr. Seward, and dispatched his secretary to France for new instructions. It is rumoured that if the Federal Government accredit a Minister to Juarez, the French Embassy will at once leave Washington.