
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Saxonia and the City of Manchester we have intelligence from New York to the 7th inst.
Everything was quiet at Savannah, and good order prevailed among the citizens. General Sherman is reported to be in occupation of both banks of the Savannah. It is believed that his next point of attack will be Branchville, where the Charleston and Savannah Railroad meets the Augusta road. The Confederates are preparing to defend this important position. The military authorities of Charleston have shown their sense of the near neighbourhood of Sherman by issuing an order making it imperative on all slaves, not having permission to remain, to quit the city, and interdicting entrance to the city to all non-combatants not having proper passes. At the same time the engineers have set to work on the land defences of the place.
Admiral Porter appears to have withdrawn from Wilmington. General Bragg reports the Confederate losses during the bombardment as three killed and fifty-five wounded. Two guns in Fort Fisher burst, two were dismounted by the Confederates, and two by the Federal fire. Southern despatches contain a report that the Federals had five vessels sunk and fifteen disabled, and lost all their horses in the gale off Wilmington.
It appears that the Federals were to be supported in their attack on Wilmington by a gun-boat expedition up the Roanoke River. According to Southern advices, this expedition met with a disaster. Six gun-boats were blown up by torpedoes and 1000 men were lost.
General Hood's whole army succeeded in crossing the Tennessee River, and his head-quarters were at Corinth, whence he had reported that his troops had sustained no material losses since his defeat near Nashville. The Richmond papers publish a story of the capture by Hood of a Federal brigade after his retreat from Nashville; but Hood, in his despatch, says nothing of such capture.
The only news of importance from before Richmond is the failure of Butler's Dutch Gap canal. An attempt was made to open it on the 1st inst., when the earth fell in and closed the channel.
Guerrillas are becoming numerous and troublesome on the Potomac. It is reported that Mosby is rapidly recovering from his wounds, and will soon be again in the saddle. [We give on page 56 an Illustration, from a sketch by our Special Artist, of a rendezvous of Mosby's men in a pass of the Blue Ridge.] No important military operations in the valley of the Shenandoah are reported, but the movements of the Confederates in that region are said to be mysterious. Federal cavalry is scouring the Loudon valley.
On the 24th ult. a force of about 2500 Confederates, under General Wirt Adams, was threatening Baton Rouge, Louisiana.
A special despatch from Cairo states that General Dona's raid on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad was successful. Twenty-five bridges were burnt, and 4000 carbines, a large amount of ammunition, and 300 army waggons captured. Many officers and men were taken prisoners, and thirty-two railway cars destroyed.
Secretary Stanton had left Washington for Fort Monroe, Hilton Head, and Savannah, in order to confer personally with Generals Grant, Foster, and Sherman.
It is rumoured that the Confederate Congress has secretly given power to the Commander-in-Chief to detail 50,000 slaves for service in the army as soldiers. Richmond papers continue to urge the Confederate Congress to appoint General Lee Commander-in-Chief of all the Confederate forces.
New-Year's Day falling on Sunday, the usual New-Year's holiday was observed on Monday the 2nd. At Washington, the President's mansion was freely thrown open, as is customary, and large crowds attended to pay their respects. Among those present were all the foreign Ambassadors.
The message of the Governor of New York to the Legislature recommends a vigorous support of the war for the Union. The new Governor calls upon the citizens to fill up their quota of the draught.
In the Federal Senate, Mr. Wilson, of Massachusetts, presented a petition from officers of the army and navy asking for increased compensation. Mr. Sumner presented a petition from coloured citizens of New York asking for the abolition of slavery in the United States. The Senate passed a vote of thanks to General Sherman and his army. In the House of Representatives, the joint resolution to abolish slavery by Constitutional amendment was debated without result.
Admiral Farragut has received a present of 50,000 dols. from the merchants and people of New York.
The Hon. George Miffin Dallas, ex-Vice-President of the United States, and more recently Minister to the Court of St. James's, died, at his residence, in Philadelphia, on Saturday morning, Dec. 31.
Four persons were recently killed, and fifteen or twenty wounded, by the breaking through the bridge at Hudson, Ohio, of a passenger-train on the Pittsburg and Cleveland Railroad.
Mr. Fessenden is nominated Senator from Maine, and the Treasury portfolio is virtually vacant.
The latest quotation of gold at New York was about 127 per cent premium.
The Olustee made her escape from Wilmington on the night of Dec. 25 while the fleet was engaged in the attack on Fort Fisher. On the following day she was chased by the United States gun-boat Lilian, but finally turned upon her pursuer; and the Lilian, having only two guns against five carried by the privateer, was forced to seek safety in flight. The Olustee pursued for some distance, but the Lilian escaped.
The Shenandoah has burnt several more American merchant-ships.