
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamer Edinburgh we are in possession of New York journals to the 2nd inst.

War News.
General Hooker has at length commenced a movement upon the Confederate capital. On Monday, the 27th ult., a portion of the late army of the Potomac crossed the Rappahannock at Kelly's Ford, above Fredericksburg, and captured the Confederate pickets. Hooker sent out skirmishers, but found no enemy. Since that time the remainder of the army has crossed at three other fords, above and below Fredericksburg. The Confederates offered no serious resistance to the passage at any point. The Federals report the capture of 300 to 500 prisoners. The Federal casualties do not exceed fifty in number.
On the 30th three corps of Hooker's army were twelve miles in the rear of Fredericksburg. Three other corps, which had crossed above the town, were in communication with the former. Another corps was threatening to cross below and assail the flank of the Confederates. General Stoneman's cavalry were on their way to destroy the lines of railway communication with Richmond, so as to prevent General Lee from receiving reinforcements. In this position a great battle or a great catastrophe was imminent. General Hooker has ordered that all newspaper correspondents with his army shall sign their communications.
The Confederates have appeared in Western Virginia, and captured Morgantown, on the Pennsylvania State line of railway. They have repulsed Colonel Mulligan, at Fairmount, and destroyed the Baltimore and Ohio railway bridges at Fairmount and Cheat River.
It is reported that the Federal Monitor fleet is again inside Charleston Bar, prepared for another attack on that place. The Confederate Secretary for War has visited Charleston and expressed himself satisfied with the dispositions made by General Beauregard.
General Banks reports a series of successes in Louisiana. On the River Teche he had had three engagements with the enemy and repulsed them, capturing 1500 prisoners. He forced the Confederates to destroy all their transports, and gained possession of many hundred head of cattle and much miscellaneous stores and provisions. Finally, he has seized the Opelousas Railroad and communicated with Admiral Farragut above Port Hudson. In these operations he lost about 700 men.
In south-western Missouri the Confederates have been active and gathered some booty, but have lost a whole regiment, with horses and camp equipage, which was surprised by the Federals.

Miscellaneous.
The New York press generally considers that the action of Mr. Adams in giving a certificate to a vessel bound for Matamoras with arms for Mexico does not justify the severe comments of the British press thereupon, and thinks they prove the existence of a strong anti-American feeling in England ready to resent even the shadow of affront. Some journals justify Mr. Adams's conduct.
By order of the Prize Court, the Cargo of the Peterhoff is being landed and examined, to ascertain if there is contraband of war on board.
Several Federal regiments whose time of enlistment had expired had arrived at Washington and New York to be mustered out. The Federal forces will lose thirty-seven regiments in this way during the present and next months.
The 30th of April was kept as a day of fast and humiliation by the people of the United States.