
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the Damascus we have intelligence from New York to the 30th ult., at which time Sherman had not captured Atlanta, though he was reported to be drawing his lines more closely round the city. We are now told that the battle which commenced on the 21st ult. had been continued on the 22nd, but that General Sherman had repulsed all the attacks made by the Confederates, whose loss was estimated by their enemies at 7000 men, while the Federals were alleged not to have lost more than 2500 men. The dead of the two armies were buried during a truce on the 23rd; and a Washington despatch states that fighting had not been renewed up to the morning of the 25th. The Confederate commander, General Hood, alleges that the battle of the 22nd resulted in a victory for the Confederates, who on that day captured twenty-two guns and 2000 prisoners. The Federal forces on the side of Decatur have also been routed by Wheeler's cavalry, with the loss of their camp; and General Hardee is operating on Sherman's rear. Rousseau, who was recently detached with a strong body of cavalry to cut off the Southern communication with Atlanta, has rejoined Sherman, after destroying about thirty miles of the Montgomery Railway.
A demonstration was made by General Lee on the 26th ult. against General Butler's position at Bermuda Hundred. General Grant dispatched a large force to the north bank of the James River; and these troops drove the Confederates from their breastworks and captured four guns; but fighting continued, according to New York accounts of the 29th ult. A New York despatch, dated the evening of the 30th ult., states that General Grant had moved two corps to the north of the James River, was intrenched in a position ten miles from Richmond, and was reported to have abandoned the siege of Petersburg, and to intend demonstrating against Fort Darling.
In the Shenandoah Valley, the Confederates who retreated from Maryland, under General Early, suddenly turned, and defeated part of General Hunter's troops, under the command of Generals Crook of Averill, on the 23rd and 24th ult., in the neighbourhood of Winchester. The Federals retreated to Harper's Ferry, and the pursuing Confederates occupied Martinsburg and busied themselves in destroying the Baltimore and Ohio Railway. By the latest accounts we hear that the Confederates have renewed their invasion of Pennsylvania, a large body of their cavalry having entered Chambersburg on the morning of the 30th ult.; and Mosby's guerrillas were near Edward's Ferry, in Maryland. The Governor of Pennsylvania had issued a proclamation declaring that the invading force was larger than he expected, and that arms would be furnished to the citizens for the defence of Harrisburg, the State capital. All the negroes in Baltimore had, it as stated, been armed by the Federal authorities.
Secretary Fessenden has opened a subscription for a loan of 200,000,000 dols. in Treasury notes, bearing 7 3-tenths per cent interest in "greenbacks," and convertible at the end of three years into bonds bearing six per cent interest, payable in gold.
Gold at New York on July 30 was 255¾.
A board of naval officers had decided that the men rescued from the Alabama by the Deerhound were prisoners of war, and the Washington Government had approved the decision.