
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
UNITED STATES.
The Washington Government, having received official notice of the removal of all restrictions upon American vessels in British ports, had given instructions that the most liberal hospitality and courtesy should be shown by Federal naval officers to officers of the British Navy.
The abolition of slavery and the repudiation of the Confederate debt are essential conditions for readmittance of southern States into the Union.
President Johnson has released John Mitchell, as he intimates, not from any feeling of consideration to that individual personally, but out of respect "and as a compliment to a large section of our countrymen with whom Mitchell was previously identified." This, it is stated, he made plain to a deputation from the Fenian congress which waited upon him.
The public debt of the United States has been reduced by 4,000,000 dols. since September.
The steamer Atlanta, on reaching New York, was found to have sixty cases of cholera on board, among which were fifteen deaths, and was immediately put into quarantine.
Another correspondence between the Foreign Office and the American Minister has been published. The English letters are signed by Earl Russell, and are, as he intimates, the last he would have the honour to write on the subject. The further correspondence will be conducted by Lord Clarendon. Mr. Adams intimates that his Government will not insist on the arbitration which they at first suggested, and with regard to the mixed commission, he inquires what are the questions which Earl Russell would refer to it, and what the principles by which its proceedings would be regulated. Earl Russell promises a reply to those queries as soon as they can be got ready, and in the mean time he passes in review all the complaints made by Mr. Adams of breaches of neutrality during the war, showing how the British Government dealt with them, to vindicate this country from a violation of international law in each case.
The Shenandoah, with all her stores, was yesterday week handed over to the United States Consul at Liverpool. Captain Waddell and the crew of the Shenandoah were liberated. The Government ordered the release of all who were not British subjects, and, of course, when this order was read, no one claimed to be a British subject.
CANADA.
Great alarm prevails in Canada as to the Fenian projects. The Fenians had threatened a rising there, and, it was said, had a steamer ready for offensive purposes. Military preparations were being taken, and Toronto was picketed.