
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the Moravian we have intelligence from New York to the morning of the 12th inst. The war news, which consists mostly of rumours, is confused, and in many cases contradictory. Sherman's movements are surrounded with mystery, all the reports respecting his movements having proceeded from refugees, prisoners, or scouts. Sherman is reported to have occupied Choran, and is also said to have defeated Cheatham's corps, which was moving to the assistance of Hardee. General Johnston is supposed to have attacked General Sherman in front, and is said to have been defeated. The locality of the battle is, however, not given.
Nothing was certainly known of any Federal advance from Wilmington; but it was rumoured in Washington that General Schofield had had an engagement in North Carolina. A body of Federals, advancing from Newbern, was said to have arrived near Kingston, in North Carolina.
Admiral Dalhgren has captured Fort White, George Town, South Carolina, with fifteen guns. In making the attack, the Admiral's flagship was sunk by a torpedo.
Sheridan, after a long period of inaction, appears to have given a good account of himself. He met Early between Stanton and Charlottesville, and routed the Confederates. In the engagement the Federals, who are said to have lost only ten men, took General Early's Staff, eighty-seven officers, 1100 soldiers, seven guns, and a large number of waggons.
Of the doings of General Grant and of General Lee there are nothing but rumours of the vaguest kind. Governor Vance had appealed to the people of North Carolina for provisions for General Lee's army, and was said to have declared that for some months General Lee's troops must depend on North Carolina and Virginia for support.
The Confederate Senate has passed, by a majority of one vote, a bill for arming negroes. It was said that some negro soldiers had been seen confronting the Federal pickets.
The inauguration of President Lincoln and Vice-President Andrew Johnson passed off with the usual ceremonies. The President never appeared to so much advantage as on the solemn occasion of his resuming power, with general approval, for a new term; but it is not difficult to gather, from the descriptions given in the New York papers and by the correspondents of English journals, that the Vice-President was drunk--he stammered out a few broken sentences in tipsy glorification of himself as a "plebeian," to the disgust and shame of all who assisted at the ceremony. The New York journals stigmatise Mr. Johnson's conduct, and some recommend him to resign.
Mr. Lincoln has been officially informed of England's approval of the recent Canadian legislation regarding Southern refugees. The Canadian passport order has been rescinded, and it has also been agreed not to increase the naval force on the lakes.
The Federal Senate has confirmed President Lincoln's appointment of Mr. M'Culloch to the secretaryship of the Treasury. The new Secretary has expressed his disapproval of issues of paper money, and his resolve to promote a return to specie payments.
Seventeen States have ratified the Constitutional amendment to abolish and prohibit slavery in the United States.
The celebration for the Union victories by land and sea, which was to have taken place in New York on the 4th of March, but was postponed on account of the inclemency of the weather, took place on the 6th inst., under circumstances of more than usual brilliancy and success. The display had rarely been equalled in New York. The people of the States of California, Nevada, and Oregon also observed the day in an enthusiastic manner.
The United States Consul at Matamoras had left, and arrived at New Orleans, the reason of his expulsion being the non-recognition of the French and Mexican authorities in Mexico by the United States.
On the 7th inst. an express-train from Washington for New York and a passenger-train from Philadelphia for New York came into collision. Nine persons were killed, and forty others received injuries. Nearly all the sufferers were soldiers, several of them being returned prisoners.