
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
Telegrams from New York, to the 1st inst., state that the conspiracy trial in Washington has been concluded. The Military Commission has agreed upon the verdict, but it will not be made public until after it has been either approved or rejected by the President. The Judge-Advocate previously submitted an argument asserting that four of the prisoners were fellow-conspirators with Booth. He contended that the evidence showed that Davis, Sanders, Tucker, and others, planned and assisted the assassination.
Owing to too close application to his duties, President Johnson has been indisposed for several days past and unable to take part in Cabinet meetings.
Colonel Mosby, the celebrated Confederate cavalry raider, has been pardoned by the President, and has commenced practising law at Culpepper, Virginia.
A deputation from South Carolina has had an interview with President Johnson to request the appointment of a civil governor. Johnson replied that no State would go out of the Union. He must deal with restoration, not reconstruction. The people of South Carolina could not be admitted to Congressional representation until they called a convention and adopted the Federal and State Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery. He thought if negro suffrage were now granted employers would control negro suffrage to the detriment of the poor whites. He would, after consultation with his Cabinet, consider the appointment of a governor.
President Johnson has ordered the military authorities at Charleston not to prohibit political assemblages of coloured people.
General Terry has issued an order at Richmond that the negroes will enjoy the same personal liberty and be subject to the same restraints as whites.
The Virginia Legislature has adjourned, after extending the franchise to those excluded by the Alexandria Constitution.
There have been serious affrays between the Federal soldiers and the blacks at several places. At Norfolk the troops, aided by the white inhabitants, had driven the negroes from the town. At Charleston there had been a fight between the white and black soldiers, and several were wounded on each side, At Savannah a New York regiment had mutinied, and refused to do duty with the black troops; and forty-three of the mutineers had been apprehended, and imprisoned in Fort Pulaski. A serious affray took place at Portsmouth, Virginia, between the white and coloured people. Many persons were wounded.
General Herron, commanding in Northern Louisiana, has forbidden the slaves to leave the plantations.
The Governor of Kentucky has addressed the people, declaring slavery to be dead and urging the adoption of the constitutional amendment.
General Hooker has superseded General Dix.