
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer St. George we have telegrams from New York vià Cape Race to the evening of the 23rd ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.

The Confederates made a bold dash on the 14th ult., with a force of calvary and artillery, in the rear of General M'Clellan's army. They passed round his right flank, cut the telegraph wires, and injured the railway from West Point. They also destroyed forage and tents, took many prisoners, and retreated safely.
General M'Clellan's army before Richmond had been reinforced by the corps under General M'Dowell. The weather was fine and the roads firm.

The Confederates opened fire upon the Federal fleet at City Point, on James River, but the batteries were silenced by the Federals.

General Jackson's forces are concentrated at Harrisonburg and Fort Republic, in the valley of the Shenandoah. He has been reinforced. General Fremont was falling back on Mount Jackson.

General Morgan, of the Federal army, reports, under date of the 18th, that he that day marched upon and occupied Cumberland gap, which the enemy evacuated four hours before his arrival. This gap is a pass in the Cumberland mountains, at a point where the boundary lines of the States of Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee converge.

A meagre telegram from Cape Race announces that a bloody battle was fought near Charleston on the 16th, with heavy loss on both sides. The latest issue of the Charleston Mercury expresses apprehension for the safety of the city.

The Confederates, 65,000 strong, were reported to be concentrated at Grenada, Mississippi. Some fighting had taken place in the neighbourhood of Bâton Rouge, but the result was unknown. General Pope had discontinued his pursuit of Beauregard, who was last heard of at Montgomery, on his way to Richmond.

Vicksburg, on the Mississippi, still held out against the Federal flotilla, which is about to be reinforced by the mortar fleet from New Orleans.

It is confirmed that the British prize-ship Circassian had been condemned at Key West.

At New Orleans one man had been hanged for hauling down the Federal flag from the Mint. At Memphis the Federal sentinels had received orders to shoot any person attempting to lower the Federal flag or to molest Union citizens.

WASHINGTON.

On the 17th the bill for the abolition of slavery in the territories of the United States finally passed Congress. It is as follows:—

To the end that freedom may be and remain for ever the fundamental law
of the land in all places whatsoever so far as it lies within the power or
depends upon the action of the Government of the United States to make
it so, therefore be it enacted, &c., that from and after the
passage of this Act there shall be neither slavery nor involuntary
servitude in any of the territories of the United States now existing,
or which may at any time hereafter be formed or acquired by the United
States, otherwise than in punishment of crimes whereof the party
shall have been duly convicted.

A bill to free from servitude the slaves of certain "rebel" leaders was passed in the House by a vote of 82 against 54.

Secretary Chase has announced that the Mississippi and its tributaries are open for legitimate traffic as far as Memphis.

Prior to the departure of Lord Lyons from Washington he presented Mr. Stewart, First Secretary of the Legation, to the State Department, where he was duly recognised as Chargé d'Affaires during his Lordship's absence.

MISCELLANEOUS.

M. Pierre Soulé had arrived in New York, and was incarcerated in Fort Lafayette.

Mr. Appleton Oaksmith, after a trial of five days, had been found guilty by a New York jury of participating in the slave trade. The punishment for the crime is five years' confinement in the State prison and a fine of 5000 dollars, or in default of payment one year's additional imprisonment for each 1000 dollars.

The export of specie to Europe continues, the steamer City of Washington alone having taken 2,400,000 dollars.