
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
The Confederates appear to have made a general aggressive movement. General Longstreet has, it is stated, driven the Federals into Knoxville and got possession of the French Bread River, whence large supplies of forage can be drawn. In North Carolina they had driven in the Federal outposts, and in Western Virginia had captured some Federal detachments and stores; but, on pressing their advantages, they were repulsed in both instances.
The Federals have recommenced shelling Fort Sumter, having discovered that the Confederates had remounted five guns on the fort.
There was a renewed report of General Meade being superseded by General Thomas.
Another land and naval expedition was being fitted out at New Orleans; its destination was not known, but was supposed to be Mobile.
The Southern army is said to be in the best spirits, and the soldiers were re-enlisting by brigades and regiments. General Lee issued an order on the 22nd ult. stating that the temporary reduction of rations was caused by circumstances beyond the control of those charged with the support of the army; but it was hoped this would be of short duration. The army has proved that the country could require no sacrifice too great for its patriotism.
President Lincoln has ordered a forced levy of 500,000 men. The levy is to be made on the 10th of March next, and all volunteers who may be raised before that date will be deducted from it. The 300,000 men summoned in October last are to be included in the 500,000 required by the present call, which is therefore an order for an additional levy of 200,000 men.
A bill has been reported in the House of Representatives appropriating 529,000,000 dols. for the army expenses in the year ending June, 1865.
The New York Legislature has resolved to add 2,000 000 dols. to the recruiting fund, and to increase the State bounty to 300 dols.
A New York letter states that since the outbreak of the civil war President Lincoln has called out about 2,000,000 men for service in the Federal army, and 500,000 for service in the Federal navy.
Quite an excitement exists in relation to the next presidency. Mr. Lincoln has been nominated by the several State Legislatures and conventions, and it is believed that he will get the regular Republican nomination, although Mr. Chase's friends are advancing his claims with great energy. It is also said that Fremont will be a candidate. The nomination of General Grant has been strongly advocated by the New York Herald and several other papers; but M'Clellan, thus far, seems to be the probable candidate of the Democratic party.
Colonel Colt's pistol factory at Hartford, Connecticut, has been destroyed by fire: 1700 workmen were thrown out of employment, and the loss was computed at over 2,000,000 dollars. The new buildings in which minié rifles are made were saved.
The Cabinet of Washington has ordered a Court of Inquiry to investigate the circumstances under which an officer of the Federal steamer Vanderbilt shot Mr. Gray, the mate of the British barque Saxon, which was captured by the Vanderbilt at Angra Pequena, and which is alleged to have been taken in British waters. According to the published accounts of the occurrence and the statements of the English crew, an unprovoked murder was committed by Doniphan, the Federal officer; but the Boston Advertiser states that Doniphan declares the fatal shot was fired accidentally by him.
The Judge of the Admiralty Court at Halifax has decided to restore the Chesapeake and cargo to the owners, subject to conditions respecting the payment of such expenses as the Attorney-General may exact. The Attorney-General demands a surety against latent claims, but the owners of the Chesapeake demur to this.
The hearing of the case of the men implicated in the seizure of the Chesapeake was still going on at St. John, New Brunswick. Testimony was given to the effect that ten of the men who seized the ship were commissioned Confederate officers.