
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
We have news from New York to the 1st inst.
The quietude about Petersburg has been broken. It is announced that General Grant's army had undertaken important operations both on the north and south banks of the James River, though their scope and result are not yet very clear. It appears from Grant's report that, on the morning of the 20th ult., General Ord's Federal corps advanced and carried the strong fortifications of Chepin's Farm, in which he took fifteen guns and 200 prisoners. At the same time another Federal division moved from Deep Bottom and carried the intrenchments which defended the Newmarket Road, scattering the enemy and taking a few prisoners. This division afterwards advanced towards Richmond, and arrived at a place called Junction Hill. In a subsequent report, apparently forwarded on the evening of the 30th ult., General Grant stated that the operations on the north side of the James River were successful. He further added, as to his movements on the south bank, that on the 30th ult. General Warren's corps carried the enemy's line on the right, and was following up its successes; and that General Meade had moved from the left and carried the enemy's lines near Poplar Grove, while General Butler had repulsed an attack on his lines.
General Sheridan had reported, apparently on the 23rd ult., that he had pursued the defeated Confederates to Port Republic; that his cavalry had destroyed much property at Staunton and Waynesborough, on the Charlottesville Railway; and that General Early's army was said to be demoralised. No official accounts later than the 26th ult. had been received from him, as Confederate guerrillas in his rear had captured his couriers--a strange position for a conquering army to be in. But the Richmond journals asserted that on the 26th ult. General Sheridan unsuccessfully attacked General Early at Broom's Gap, and that General Early then reassumed the offensive, and drove the Federals back six miles to Port Republic, and, it was believed, across the Shenandoah river.
The position of General Sherman at Atlanta does not appear to be quite safe. A brigade under General Martin had torn up the railway track between Dalton and Atlanta; while General Forrest had taken the Federal garrison at Athens, had destroyed the railroad between Decatur and Athens, had captured two trains on the Nashville and Chattanooga railroad, and had done more or less damage on various parts of that railway. But it is stated that the Federal Government "felt no apprehension concerning General Sherman's communications." Secretary Stanton has issued a circular urging the people to promote enlistments in order that General Sherman might be enabled to hold Atlanta and to advance further south. General Hood was advancing towards the Alabama line. The Southern papers state that Beauregard had been appointed to the command of the Confederate armies in Georgia. The rumours of peace negotiations in that State are renewed. It is said the Governor of that State had tendered to Sherman propositions of peace, and that that General had sent commissioners to treat with the Georgian authorities. A Washington telegram of the 29th ult. says:--"After careful inquiry, it cannot be ascertained that any importance is attached in official circles to the rumoured peace propositions from Georgia." A paper war has been raging between Generals Hood and Sherman respecting the expulsion by the latter of the citizens of Atlanta.
The Confederate General Price, who was aided by Generals Kirby Smith and Shelby, had invaded the State of Missouri at the head of forces estimated at 30,000 men, and had advanced at least as far as Potosi. The invasion had caused great alarm at St. Louis, where the Federal authorities were preparing for the defence of the city; and General Rosecranz [i.e., Rosecrans] had issued a proclamation calling the Union people to arms, and had succeeded in raising 12,000 Missourian militia.
General Hooker has been appointed to command in the West.
President Jefferson Davis, in a speech made by him at Salisbury, in North Carolina, declared that, although reverses had been experienced by the Confederates, the spirit of the confederacy was unbroken; and it would yet wring peace and independence from a hated foe. He urged all Southern men to join the army, and all Southern women to marry no man who shirked the duties of a soldier.
A mass meeting in favour of Lincoln had been held at New York.
General Sully is reported to have defeated the allied Indian force of 6000 warriors in a desperate battle in Nebraska, inflicting upon them terrible punishment.
After violent fluctuations, gold was quoted on the 1st inst. at 90½ premium, showing a great decline from previous prices. At one time the premium was as low as 83.