
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamers City of New York and Hibernian we have received telegrams from New York to the evening of the 14th inst.

War News.
From the army on the Rappahannock there is nothing to report beyond a successful cavalry raid on the part of the Confederates into Fairfax Courthouse, resulting in the capture of Brigadier-General Stoughton, with his head-quarters, guard, and fifty-five horses.

No attack on Charleston had yet been made; but General Hunter had issued preliminary orders, showing that an attack would soon commence. General Beauregard, in anticipation thereof, has revoked all furloughs and recalled all absentees to Charleston.
Partly in order to test the invulnerability of the Federal ironclads, they bombarded Fort M'Allister, in the Ogeechee River, for twenty hours. They were struck several times, but not injured. They could not get near enough to the fort to dismantle it on account of the obstructions in the river.

Federal gun-boats have passed through the channel cut by the army from the Mississippi into Lake Providence, in the northern parish of Louisiana. They have done considerable damage on its banks.
Mr. Slidell's property has been confiscated at New Orleans.
It is reported from Memphis that the Federal expedition up the Yazoo has captured Yazoo city and all the Confederate transports above it.
Immense numbers of the Federal troops are sick at Vicksburg.

President Lincoln has issued a proclamation declaring that absent soldiers who return to their commands before the 1st of April will be reinstated; but that those who do not do so will be arrested and treated as deserters. He warns the people against enticing soldiers to desert, and calls upon them to assist in preventing desertion.

The British steamer Peterhoff, from London, for the Mexican port of Metamoras, was captured off St. Thomas by a vessel of Admiral Wickes's squadron and sent into Key West for adjudication. She was heavily laden with boots, blankets, &c., for the Confederate Government.

The Confederate States.

Richmond despatches speak discouragingly of the prospect of supplies of food, and say that the impressment of grain by the Government discourages production. The New York journals assert that gold at Richmond is at 350 per cent premium.

The Mobile papers state that the Confederates have much trouble with the Union men in Northern Alabama. One county is said to be full of them, and many deserters are joining them.

Miscellaneous.

The Senate has confirmed the appointment of Mr. Cassius M. Clay as Minister to Russia. His confirmation was specially pressed by Mr. Seward and the President.
The Senate adjourned on the 14th.
Senator Sumner, the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, strongly urged the President not to issue letters of marque. On the other hand, the committee of the New York Chamber of Commerce have had an interview with President Lincoln, urging him to issue them forthwith.

The election in New Hampshire is rather favourable to the Republicans. Two Republican and one Democratic member have been elected to Congress. There were three candidates for Governor, and none claimed an absolute majority. The Republican candidate will be chosen by the Legislature.

The British steamer Queen of the Wave has run ashore at Charleston. The Federal Admiral Dupont was making efforts to save her.
The Federal debt, up to March 1, 1863, is set down at 868,000,000 dols.
Secretary Chase is in New York, endeavouring to raise 100,000,000 dols., one half in twenty-year bonds and the other half in short bonds. It was reported in Wall-street that he had received an offer from Europe for 100,000,000 dols. six per cent bonds at a higher figure than par. Gold was at 58 premium.
Utah.

A collision between the military and the citizens if Utah has taken place. Congress having passed a law to put down polygamy, the Governor of Utah and his associate justices ordered the military to arrest Brigham Young and Councillors Kimball and Wells. The citizens armed, but were not able to prevent the arrest of their high priest. He was released on giving bonds to appear for trial.