
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the Peruvian and the City of London we have New York dispatches to the afternoon of the 26th ult.
General Sherman is making his way through the heart of Georgia, laying waste the whole country in the track of his columns. There is, however, little as yet positively known as to his movements, and these is no certainty as to the point at which he is aiming. It seems as if he were making for Augusta, one portion of his cavalry having reached Gordon. He appears to have extended his army along a wide extent of country, and had burned several towns through which he passed. There was a report that he had captured Macon, but this is not confirmed. On the contrary, at the last account, the Confederate General Wheeler with his cavalry was said to be disputing the advance of Sherman's column on that place. General Beauregard had telegraphed that he would soon be in Georgia to aid in repelling the invader, and he requested the people to destroy everything before Sherman, so that he could not live on the country. The Georgian representatives had also telegraphed a similar request. Meantime, the militia were mustering in all directions, and orders had been given that the local forces of North and South Carolina should go beyond the borders of their own States to assist in repelling the bold Federal. Hood was progressing rapidly in Tennessee. He was advancing on Pulaski, from which the Federals were retreating, making for Colombo, where an engagement was expected. Thus we have the remarkable spectacle of a Federal General making his way by fire and sword through the rich cotton State of Georgia, and of the Confederate General so lately opposed to him carrying at the same time the war northward.
At Petersburg no active movement had taken place; but the Confederates were reported to be mining under Grant's lines. On a late Federal reconnaissance in the Shenandoah Valley Early was found in strong force at Rood's Hill.
President Lincoln has issued a proclamation announcing that the blockade of the ports of Norfolk, Virginia, and Pensacola and Fernandina, Florida, should be raised on Dec. 1, when those ports would be opened to commerce, excluding only articles contraband of war.
The exchange of prisoners of war is still in progress at Savannah. At last accounts nearly 4000 had been exchanged.
The Hon. Reuben E. Fenton, Governor Elect of the State of New York, in responding to a serenade at the Astor House, stated that hereafter the State should occupy no hesitating or equivocal position. The issue presented to the people, he said, was whether they would maintain the Government in its integrity, or whether the advantages gained over the Confederates should be surrendered, thus acknowledging the inability of the North to maintain the contest and becoming the laughing-stock and derision of mankind.
It is reported from Washington that Lord Lyons has almost recovered from his recent illness.
An attempt was, we are told, made, on the night of the 25th ult., to set fire simultaneously to a number of the great hotels, theatres, and public buildings of New York; but it is added that little damage was done. Two of the alleged incendiaries had been apprehended, and it was supposed that Confederate emissaries were connected with the plot.
The latest quotation of gold at New York was 122½ per cent premium.
The Canadian authorities, finding that the Southerners were collecting munitions of war at various points, had prohibited the exportation of arms.