
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.


By the arrival of the Jura and City of Baltimore we have journals of the 23rd and telegrams of the 26th ult.

War News.

The evacuation of Harrison's Landing by the army of General M'Clellan was effected without loss or interruption. The bulk of his army has since been removed from the peninsula of Yorktown to Acquia Creek on the Potomac, whence it effected a junction with the army under the command of General Pope.

The Confederates, on receiving information of M'Clellan's movements, immediately marched out in full force from Richmond in order to fall upon General Pope before reinforcements could reach him. The latter forthwith retreated across the Rappahannock, the Confederates following close on his rear. Repeated skirmishing and artillery engagements took place. At Cuttle's Station the Confederates captured a staff officer and General Pope's personal luggage, maps, official despatches, and valuable papers relating to the campaign. The Federals occupied Warrenton after a slight engagement. By last accounts the Confederates held the south bank of the Rappahannock with a line of batteries extending fifteen miles. They had attacked the Federals and endeavoured to cross the river several times, but had been repulsed by General Pope.

General Halleck had issued orders that officers and men will be held accountable for all property taken from the enemy. Officers and men taking private property without authority would be shot.

The Confederates had retreated from Lexington, Missouri, had been defeated in Arkansas, and repulsed in an attack on Edgefield, Tennessee; but had captured Clarksville, in the same State, and were advancing on Fort Donnelson. They had also invaded Kentucky and captured several towns.

The Negro Brigade formed by General Hunter in South Carolina had been disbanded, in consequence of its being discountenanced by the Administration.

The Federal commissioner sent to New Orleans to examine into some of General Butler's proceedings there has reported, and recommends the return to the Dutch and French Consuls of the specie seized by that General, and also that a large amount of sugar and other merchandise should be relinquished to British, Greek, and other foreign merchants in New Orleans.
Miscellaneous.

Mr. Seward has officially announced that persons who have merely declared their intention to become citizens, without taking the subsequent steps necessary to complete the process of naturalisation, are not liable to be draughted. He had also issued orders to grant passports to persons liable to be draughted who desire to go abroad, on their executing a bond to the United States conditional to perform military duty or furnish a substitute.

President Lincoln had addressed a deputation of coloured men urging them to co-operate with him in colonising their race in Central America, inasmuch as there was no chance of their attaining to a position of civil and social equality with white men owing to the antipathy of the latter to people of their race and complexion.

An enthusiastic reception had been accorded to the released General (late Colonel) Corcoran, of the 69th (Irish) Regiment, captured at the battle of Bull Run, in Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York. He everywhere stimulated his countrymen to enlist, holding out to them the inducement that the cause of Irish independence would be benefited by the military training they would receive under the American flag.

General Meagher and Archbishop Hughes having spoken in the same sense, enlistments have been more numerous of late, both among the Irish and native elements of the population.

The new small-note and postage-stamp Federal currency was issued on the 21st ult. Gold was at l5 ½ premium.

The Indians in the north-west part of Minnesota, exasperated at the non-payment of the money due to them from the Federal Government, attacked the whites, and murdered men, women, and children, burning all the dwelling-houses they could find. Several hundreds are said to have been killed. A body of forty-five volunteers was cut to pieces. The Governor of the State has ordered out the militia with horses to the scene of action.

President Davis's Message.

The Confederate Congress assembled at Richmond on the 18th ult. The message of Mr. Davis admits "the suffering endured by some portions of the people." The prowess of the army is spoken of as assuring the triumph of "constitutional liberty" in the pending struggle against "despotic usurpation." He charges the Federals with disregarding the laws of civilised warfare:-- Stern exemplary punishment must be meted out to the murderers and felons who, disgracing the profession of arms, seek to make public war the occasion for the commission of the most monstrous crimes. Deeply as we regret the character of the contest into which we are about to be forced, we must accept it as an alternative which recent manifestations give us little hope can be avoided. The exasperation of failure has aroused the worst passions of our enemies. A large portion of their people, even of their clergymen, now engage in urging an excited populace to the extreme of ferocity. He recommends the extension of the conscription law so as to include all citizens between thirty-five and forty-five years of age. Bills embodying his suggestions had already been introduced into Congress--in particular, one providing that a Federal army, composed incongruously of whites and blacks, shall not be entitled to the privileges of war. All negroes belonging to such an army who may be captured will be sold and their commanders hung or shot.
Canada.
Anthony Burns, who about eight years age was apprehended in Boston, and surrendered to his master as a fugitive slave, and afterwards purchased and emancipated by the American Abolitionists, died at St. Catherine's on the 27th ult. At the time of his death he was a Baptist minister. His illness was brought on by over exertion and exposure, last winter and spring, in trying to clear the church of which he was pastor from debt. He not only did this, but succeeded in making some important repairs; but, when everything seemed to prosper with him, his health failed.
