
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The Jura brings intelligence from New York to the evening of the 22nd ult.
General Longstreet was defeated on the 19th ult. General Sheridan states that before daylight the Confederates attacked his army at Cedar Creek, turning and driving most of his line in confusion and capturing twenty guns. He was then at Winchester, whence he hastened, and found his troops driven back, between Middletown and Newtown. He drew them up in line, and repulsed the enemy's attack at one o'clock in the afternoon. Two hours afterwards he attacked the Confederates in his turn, and drove and routed them, capturing fifty guns, including those previously taken from the Federals. No official estimate had been made of the slaughter on either side; but unofficial advices state that the Federals had lost 5000 men, including four Generals, and that they had taken 1600 prisoners. The defeated Confederates had retreated to Woodstock, and were pursued as far as Fisher's Hill by the Federal cavalry.
There has been little doing in the neighbourhood of Richmond. Two divisions of Grant's army made a reconnaissance to Darby Town road, where they found a new formidable line of Confederate works; they assaulted them, but, having been repulsed, they withdrew, pursued by the Confederates. The Federal loss was 400 men. General Lee reports that the assault was easily repulsed, with a slight Confederate loss.
Stanton reports that the telegraph is working to Atlanta. Southern despatches indicate that Hood is about to change his base of operations to North Alabama, where he will be joined by Beauregard, for the prosecution of the campaign against HautsvilleHuntsville, Alabama. Walker's Trans-Mississippi division has crossed the river to reinforce General Hood. Southern journals continue to represent Sherman's position such that the evacuation of Atlanta may daily be expected.
The Confederates, under General Forrest, were reported to have invaded Western Kentucky.
General Price had taken Glasgow, and had obtained many recruits in Missouri for his army, which was assuming formidable proportions; but the Federals were concentrating their forces to attack him, and it was reported that skirmishing had begun between his troops and those of the Federal General Curtis.
Some twenty-five desperadoes, supposed to be Confederate refugees, had attacked and plundered the bank at St. Albans, in the State of Vermont, and had afterwards fled into Canada, where most of them had been apprehended, and the money had been recovered.
The Richmond Examiner was urging that negroes should be armed by the South; and the Confederate Governor of Louisiana was said to have made the same recommendation.
The Confederate Congress will assemble at Richmond on the 7th inst.
The presidential election in the United States will take place on Tuesday next, the 8th inst.
President Lincoln has disclaimed any purpose of interfering with the operation of the constitutional law, whatever may be the result of the election.
A committee from Tennessee has presented a petition to President Lincoln, asking to be relieved of the test oath required by Governor Johnstone's proclamation. The committee have written a letter stating that Lincoln replied that he supposed New York politicians had concocted the petition; he expected that M'Clellan's friends would manage their side of the election in their way; he would manage his in his way. He might or might not hereafter write something about the matter.
An anti-slavery Constitution has been adopted in Maryland by a small majority, increasing the free States to twenty.
In Pennsylvania the result of the voting was undecided; but the soldiers' vote showed a large Republican majority.
In a long report addressed to the Secretary of War, Judge Holt had asserted that an extensive conspiracy against the Union, under the presidency of Mr. Vallandigham, had been formed, principally in the north-western States, and that the conspirators, who numbered several hundred thousand men, were mostly armed and organised.
The price of gold was constantly fluctuating in New York, but the latest quotation on the evening of Oct. 22 was 212.
The Federal steamer Roanoke, which plied between Havannah and New York, had been seized at sea by Confederates, who went on board as passengers at Havannah. They landed her passengers and crew at Bermuda, and then, after burning her off the harbour, returned in boats to Bermuda, where they were arrested by the British authorities.
The well-known Confederate cruiser the Florida has been captured off Bahia by the Federal man-of-war Wachusetts. The Index, the London Confederate organ, gives the following account of her capture:--"The Confederate authorities in London have received a telegraphic despatch, dated Lisbon, from Captain Morris, commander of the Confederate steam-ship Florida, announcing the capture of that vessel on Oct. 7 by the Federal steamer Wachusetts in the harbour of Bahia. At the time of capture the Florida was lying under the guns of the Brazilian forts and of the Brazilian fleet, and Captain Morris was on shore. Captain Morris is on board the Magdalena, bound for Southampton."