
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
We have news from New York to the morning of the 16th inst.
A delegation of prominent citizens representing the nine Southern States have had an interview with President Johnson, to affirm their allegiance to the Constitution and the Union, and to express confidence in the President's policy towards the South. Mr. Johnson, in replying to the sentiments expressed by the delegation, said he was glad to see the Southern people, after submitting the question of secession to the arbitrament of the sword, and having lost the cause, now frankly admitted their defeat, and were willing to become good citizens. The Government would do all in their power to restore civil authority in the South, and he hoped to see them again fully enjoying their old position in the Union. The Government had no disposition to deal harshly with the South, notwithstanding the speeches published in various quarters breathing a different spirit. Though dreading disintegration, he strongly opposed consolidation. The delegation thanked the President for the generous and magnanimous expression of his kindly feeling towards the South.
It is reported that all troops, except for garrison duty, are to be withdrawn from the South. The conflict between the military and civil authorities in South Carolina had been amicably arranged.
Conventions for revisions of the constitution of Alabama and South Carolina assembled at Montgomery and Columbia, the respective capitals of those States, on the 12th and 13th inst. No important proceedings have yet been reported. At a meeting of the citizens of Austin, Grimes, and Washington Counties, Texas, recently held at Hempstead, it was resolved to co-operate with President Johnson in his system of restoration, and Provisional Governor Hamilton was solicited to appoint an early day for a revision of the State Constitution.
The Massachusett's Republic Convention was held at Worcester, on the 14th inst. Colonel Alexander Bullock was nominated for Governor, and the Hon. William Chaplin for Lieutenant-Governor. Resolutions expressing confidence in President Johnson and pledging the State to support his reconstruction policy were adopted. The Convention considered the Southern leaders should suffer condign punishment, but recommended pardoning the Southern people. Senator Sumner made a speech in which he stated that neither the rebellion nor slavery was ended, nor would be, until the negroes were placed upon a full equality with the whites before the law.
A banquet was given, on the 9th ult., in Meadville, Pennsylvania, on the Atlantic and Great Western Railroad, to the English capitalists, Sir Morton Peto, Mr. James M'Henry, Mr. Brassey, and suite, who are on a tour of inspection of the public works and other enterprises of Canada and America.
Three whaling-vessels--one of them having on board 150 sailors from vessels destroyed by the Shenandoah--arrived at Honolulu, Sandwich Islands, on Aug. 16. They report the total number of captures by the Shenandoah at thirty vessels, twenty-six of which were burnt and bonded.