
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
War News.
The steamer City of London brings intelligence from New York, by telegraph to Cape Race, to the evening of the 7th inst.
The siege of Charleston does not seem to have made much progress. Fort Sumter had not surrendered, General Beauregard having determined to hold it by means of temporary fortifications. The bombardment of Charleston had not been continued, owing, possibly, to the breaking of the great Parrott gun. On the last day of August the Federal ironclads advanced without opposition from Forts Sumter and Wagner, and engaged Fort Moultrie. It was then thought that the fleet would be able to move up the harbour. A brief telegram, however, informs us that on the 1st of September the monitors and ironclads withdrew from the attack. The Confederates were remounting guns on Sumter. General Gilmore had pushed forward his trenches close to Fort Wagner and had carried the Confederate rifle-pits on his left, capturing seventy prisoners. General Beauregard officially states that General Gilmore's first demand for the surrender of Fort Sumter and Morris Island was not signed, consequently it was returned unanswered, notwithstanding which General Gilmore in four hours afterwards threw shells into the city in the middle of the night, whilst the inhabitants were sleeping. Gilmore has replied rather sarcastically to Beauregard's "protest" against the bombardment without warning. He says it was absurd to expect formal notice of an intention to throw shells into a place which had been menaced by land and sea for two years and had for forty days been the object of a direct and energetic attack. The report that naphtha, or Greek fire, was used by the Federal General is not confirmed by later accounts; nor is it mentioned in Beauregard's despatch complaining of of bombardment without due notice.
In Virginia there had been no movements of note; but the story of an intended flank movement by General Lee was revived, and it was reported that General Stuart had crossed into Maryland for another raid. Confederate reports stated that the Federal General Averill had been defeated, with the loss of 150 prisoners and a gun, at White Sulphur Springs, Virginia; whilst according to Federal despatches they were successful. The gun-boats Satellite and Reliance, recently captured by the Confederates on the Rappahannock, have been sunk by Kilpatrick's artillery. Seven deserters, mostly substitutes for conscripts, have been shot for desertion from General Meade's army.
A great expedition was preparing to leave New Orleans, and was supposed to be intended for Mobile.
There had been a good deal of fighting in Arkansas, without any great advantage on either side.
The Confederates are said to occupy no part of East Tennessee save the Chattanooga territory, and Burnside on the one hand and Rosencranz [i.e., Rosencrans] on the other were fast closing in upon them. Rosencranz was endeavouring to destroy the Georgia Railway.
The advance of General Steele's army has driven the Confederates, 7000 strong, across the Bayou Metaire bridge in Kansas, killing and wounding 100 and capturing 200. The Confederates burnt the bridge.
The steamer Warrior has been captured north of Tortugas. The blockade-running schooner Alexander Cooper, from New York for Port Royal, has been captured off New Fleet. Correspondence from Key West to the 22nd of August gives information of the capture of several valuable prizes. The gun-boat De Soto had recently taken a fine steamer called the Alice Vivian in the Gulf, about 200 miles east of Mobile, with 580 bales of cotton on board. She has also captured the side-wheel steamer Crescent from Mobile, but last from Havannah, with an assorted cargo of merchandise. An English topsail schooner has also recently been brought in as a prize. The Admiralty Court is still without a presiding officer, and a large amount of prize property is consequently awaiting adjudication.
The Policy Of The Federal Government.
The New York Republican State Convention has passed resolutions against separation and against foreign intervention, promising to support the Government in maintaining the ascendancy of the American Continent, and approving the emancipation proclamation.
President Lincoln has addressed a letter to the convention, in which he says he does not believe that a compromise embracing the maintenance of the Union is now possible. The strength of the rebellion is in its army, and the offer of terms by men within the range of that army is nothing, such men having no power to enforce a compromise. An effective compromise must be made either with those controlling the Confederate army or with the people under its dominion. No intimation from the Confederate army, or from the men controlling it, in relation to a peace compromise has ever come to President Lincoln's knowledge or belief. "If it does come, it shall not be rejected or kept secret." The President mentions that he suggested compensated emancipation, but the people objected to taxation to buy negroes. He then continues:--"The emancipation proclamation is constitutional. If valid as a law, it cannot be retracted; if invalid, it needs no retraction. The war progresses as favourably since the issue of the proclamation as before. Peace does not appear as distant as it did; still, let us not be sanguine of a speedy, final triumph, but be quite sober, diligently applying our means, never doubting that God will give the rightful result."
General News.
The draught throughout the eastern and central States will, it is said, produce very few men. In New York, it is estimated, it will not produce over 2000 men. A case was being tried in the New York Supreme Court to test the constitutionality of the conscription. Private advices from New York mention that not only has the draught been abandoned in Ohio, but in Illinois, and that it was inferred Indiana will also be exempted, the opposition of the western States being too powerful for Mr. Lincoln's Government to contend with, in the absence of a sufficient army to exercise the same control in each of those States as in New York.
The Governor of Kentucky, in his inaugural address, says that the Confederate States cannot be remitted to a territorial condition--all they have to do is to return to their fealty. He objects to the arming of negroes.
The Union ticket has been elected in Vermont and California.
The New York, Boston, and Philadelphia banks had agreed to lend the Federal Treasury 50,000,000 dols., to be repaid in November in legal-tender notes bearing five per cent interest.
There was a panic in the New York stock market on the 2nd and 3rd inst., but it has subsided.
No direct confirmation has been received of the report that President Jefferson Davis had issued a proclamation ordering 500,000 negroes to be enlisted and armed. But the Washington correspondent of the New York Tribune professes to know that such a measure had previously been considered by the Confederate Government; that since the Confederate disasters in the south-west General Beauregard and the Governor of Alabama had urged its adoption; and that at a conference of Governors held at Richmond it had been resolved to call out 400,000 negroes, but to keep the resolve a secret until President Jefferson Davis's summons should actually be issued.
Another noteworthy statement is that an Envoy had been sent by the Confederates to Mexico to negotiate an alliance with that country and to recognise the Archduke Maximilian.
Mr. J. B. Floyd, one of the ablest authors of Secession, is dead. Previous accounts had reported his serious illness, together with that of Mr. Yancey. Mr. Floyd died of the effects of typhus fever and jaundice in their worst forms.