
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the Moravian, we have intelligence from New York to the 28th ult.
Mr. Blair had returned to Washington, having, it is said, altogether failed in his peace mission. The Confederate House of Representatives has unanimously confirmed the resolution to issue an address to the Southern people announcing the determination of Congress to continue the war; and at Washington resolutions have been introduced into the Senate in favour of the continuance of the war until the South shall make an unconditional submission. So it is clear that "the end is not yet."
The Federal General Terry had demanded the surrender of Wilmington, giving General Bragg until the 19th inst. to decide. Opinions differ as to whether the Confederates would surrender or defend the place. In the mean time Admiral Porter had occupied all the forts and works abandoned by the enemy, and was feeling his way up the river.
A Confederate squadron, composed of three ironclads and five gunboats, and said to have been commanded by Captain Semmes, descended the James River during the night of the 23rd ult., with the supposed purpose of surprising the Federal flotilla and destroying General Grant's stores and transports at City Point. But the Confederate vessels failed to pass the obstructions laid by the Federals in the stream. One of them ran aground, and had to be destroyed; and the others were compelled to return without effecting anything.
General Sherman has received considerable reinforcements, but nothing definite is known as to his movements.
In the West there have been several movements of detached expeditions.
The city of New York was to furnish 20,000 recruits under President Lincoln's last levy; and the Government had refused to reduce the quota.
President Davis has signed the Congressional resolutions creating the office of general-in-chief. He has also sent a letter to the Confederate Congress stating that, when General Lee took the command of the army of Virginia, he was commanding all the armies of the Confederate States, but was relieved of the latter command at his own request. Whenever General Lee finds it practicable to assume the chief command, without withdrawing from the direct command of the army of Virginia, Mr. Davis will deem it conducive to the public interest to place him in that position. General Johnston has been reinstated, and appointed, it is said, to the command of the Confederate army in the West.
President Davis has written a long letter in which he argues against separate State action, and also against the project of a convention of all the States of the Confederacy and of the Union.
The New York oil "diggings" promise to become as remunerative as those of Pennsylvania or West Virginia, and Cattaraugus County is fast becoming the Mecca of those who hasten to be rich.
The Senate has ratified the treaties with the north-western bands of Shoshoonee Indians establishing peace and friendship, the several bands stipulating that hostilities and all depredations upon the emigrant-trains, the mail and telegraph lines, and upon citizens of the United States within their country, shall cease. The boundaries of their country, as claimed and occupied by them, are thus given by the New York Tribune:--On the north, by the middle of the Great Desert; on the west, by Steptue Valley; on the south, by Toedon or Green Mountains; and on the east, by the Great Salt Lake, Tuilla, and Rush Valleys. The Indians agree to remove to the reservations whenever the President shall deem it expedient for them to do so, and become herdsmen or agriculturists, the Government paying them certain annuities in money, provisions, and goods. The Indians also agree that the Pacific Railroad shall not be molested; that military posts, &c., may be constructed, the gold and silver mines worked, and mining and agricultural settlements formed, and rancheros established wherever they may be required.
BRITISH NORTH AMERICA.
The Canadian Government and Parliament are taking high ground in the matter of the St. Albans outrages. Judge Coursol has been suspended, and a bill introduced to make good the fifty thousand dollars which were returned to the raiders on their release. In the opening debate in Parliament the Government was sustained by a large majority, and the conduct of the Southern refugees in Canada strongly denounced. A determination was expressed to stop the abuse of asylum. The Government is carrying out a general draught in order to be prepared for the worst, but the speeches in Parliament are friendly to the United States. The Judges have decided that Burleigh must be delivered up to the United States. A report that the English Government had ordered the dispatch of gun-boats to the great lakes is semi-officially contradicted.
A large majority in Parliament favours the confederation scheme. The British Columbia and Vancouver Island journals are agitating for the extension of the project to those colonies.
A movement is on foot for the annexation of Vancouver's Island to British Columbia and for the consolidation of the two Governments.