
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
War Intelligence.
There is nothing important in the latest news from New York. Generals Lee, Johnston, and Longstreet were assiduously engaged in recruiting and reorganising the Confederate armies under their respective commands; and General Longstreet was said to occupy a position within twenty miles of Knoxville. General Meade, in a speech which he had made in Philadelphia, had declared that active operations would be recommenced in Virginia as soon as the weather and the season permitted.
The Times' correspondent adds to the above intelligence that General Stuart, with 5000 Confederate cavalry, had again passed round General Meade on the night of the 14th inst. The object of this movement is believed to be to sever either the Alexandria and Orange or the Baltimore and Ohio Railways. The Federal authorities are said to be fully prepared to prevent material damage to either.
General Lee, under date of the 8th, announces the capture, in Hardy County, Virginia, of 300 Federals, 125 mules, and 123 cattle.
Telegrams from Fortress Monroe of the 13th reported the Federal gun-boat Iron Age aground, and under the fire of Confederate batteries, at the entrance of Wilmington Harbour, on the 11th. Her destruction on that day, by being blown up, is subsequently announced by Confederate despatches to General Cooper. Twenty-four of her crew were captured.
Two blocks of buildings and several large warehouses are reported to have been destroyed in Charleston on the 20th by Gillmore's shells. The city was almost deserted by the military. The correspondent of the New York Tribune states that three new Confederate iron-clad vessels are visible in Charleston Harbour in a forward state of construction. It is expected that these and other Confederate ironclads will shortly make a sortie against the Federal squadron.
The Confederate General Magruder was reported to be concentrating a corps of 20,000 men in Central Texas, with the purpose of attacking and overwhelming the Federal troops lately landed on the bank of the Rio Grande and the neighbouring coast.
Miscellaneous.
The New York Times has come out for the re-nomination of Mr. Lincoln to the presidency.
A memorandum on the plan and conduct of the war, dated Aug. 4, 1861, prepared, at the request of Mr. Lincoln, by General M'Clellan, has just been published. The predictions of the General in that document, which is evidently published at this time for electioneering purposes by the General's friends, seem to have been verified by subsequent events.
Smallpox is becoming so prevalent in Washington that the House of Representatives have adopted a resolution recommending the municipal authorities of that city and Georgetown to take measures to ensure the vaccination of the citizens, to prevent the further spread of the disease.
Governor Parker, in his message to the New Jersey Legislature, delivered on the 12th inst., advocates the adoption of a conciliatory policy towards the South and the reconstruction of the Union upon its original basis. He asserts that the emancipation proclamation is the chief obstacle to the termination of the war and the return of the seceded States to the Union, and condemns the amnesty manifesto; but believes that these, together with many other of Mr. Lincoln's unconstitutional acts, will be annulled upon the change of Administration.
The Democratic members of Congress, in a meeting held at Washington, had resolved that President Lincoln's amnesty proclamation was unconstitutional, and that the army and navy ought to be paid in specie or its equivalent.
Extensive frauds in the Custom House of New York, the Treasury Department of Washington, the Navy Yard, Brooklyn, and the public offices continue to be discovered. Mr. Fernando Wood proposed to appoint a Congressional Committee to investigate the administration of affairs in all the departments, as well as the charges against General Butler at New Orleans. The proposition was rejected by a vote of 76 to 63. A resolution to inquire into the frauds in the Custom House was, however, adopted.
The New York Legislature has passed a bill to enable soldiers in the field to vote.
A municipal report on the condition of the barracks on Broadway, near Astor House, has created much indignation. Sixty men, arrested for various military offences, were found confined in a room fifteen by twenty feet square. Many had been there for months, with no accommodation for sitting or lying down. The report states that they were covered with filth and treated worse than wild beasts, and that the existence of such a place was an outrage on humanity, bringing disgrace to a nation.
The Maryland Legislature have voted in favour of calling a convention to carry out emancipation.
The Judge of the Admiralty Court at Halifax had expressed an opinion that the capture of the Chesapeake was a piratical seizure, but had not delivered any judgment, nor ordered the restoration of the vessel to her owners.
The pirate passengers who lately captured the schooner Gerety, from Matamoras, for Havannah, took her into Honduras, and, after selling a portion of her cargo, escaped.
The American corvette St. Louis sailed from Lisbon on Monday to intercept an English barque with guns and stores for the Confederate cruiser Rappahannock.