
Latest News from Abroad

LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD.
The following telegrams have been received through Mr. Reuter's office:--
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the St. David (viâ Greencastle) we have received the following intelligence dated New York, Feb. 18, Evening:--
General Grant reports to Mr. Stanton this evening that to-day's Richmond Despatch says Sherman entered and took possession of Columbia yesterday morning. General Beauregard communicated this intelligence officially yesterday. From his despatch it appears that the Federals shelled Columbia on Thursday from the south bank of the Congaree. During the night they moved up the river, and on the following morning forded the Soluda and Broad Rivers. During the Federal passage of these rivers, Beauregard evacuated Columbia. The Federals soon after took possession. Two days previously, when it was decided not to attempt the defence of Columbia, a large quantity of medicinal stores was destroyed. The despatch presumes that the fall of Columbia will necessitate the evacuation of Charleston, which the despatch thinks has already commenced.
The general impression is that Sherman will now proceed to Charleston to establish his base; but the Despatch does not see what need he has of a base. He subsists on the country, and his army has not been exhausted by any battle. Since he left Savannah, Sherman declared his intention to march to Columbia, thence to Augusta, and thence to Charleston. This Beauregard considers was uttered as a boast to hide his designs. The Despatch thinks that he will next strike at Charlotte or at Florence. It was reported yesterday that the Federals had captured Augusta; but the Despatch discredits the report.
The Charleston Mercury announced a temporary suspension on Saturday, with the view to its removal to another point, this being rendered necessary by the progress of military events.
Captain Semmes has been made a Rear-Admiral, with the command of the James River squadron. Gold, 204.
Philadelphia papers announce that the Richmond papers of Thursday state that Sherman's main columns had reached Kingsville Junction, twenty-five miles north-east of Columbia. The communication south of the Florence Railroad and on the Charleston Railroad is interrupted.
A Confederate flag-of-truce boat has been blown up on the James River. All on board were lost.
The House of Representatives has passed the Tariff Bill, and rejected the proposition to tax sales of merchandise. Mr. Stevens's proposed tax of 10 per cent upon gold sales has been defeated.
CANADA.--Quebec, Feb. 17.--The House in Committee has sanctioned the appropriation of 330,000 dols. for the expenses of the arrangements on the frontier to prevent raids. It has also appropriated 50,000 dols. on account of the money refunded to the United States in the case of the St. Albans raiders.