
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamer North American we have telegrams by way of Farther Point and Cape Race to the 1st inst.
War News.
The intelligence of the series of victories gained by General Grant is confirmed, save the capture of Vicksburg, where his good fortune deserted him. His operations, up to the period when he commenced the investment of Vicksburg, are summarised in the following despatch:--
The army of the Tennessee landed at Brunsburg on the 30th of April. On the 1st of May we fought the battle of Port Gibson, and defeated the rebels under General Bowen, whose loss in killed, wounded, and prisoners was at least 1500, and loss in artillery five pieces. On the 12th of May, at the battle of Raymond, the rebels were defeated with a loss of 800. On the 14th of May we defeated General Joseph E. Johnstone and captured Jackson, with a loss to the enemy of 400, besides immense stores and manufactures, and seventeen pieces of artillery. On the 16th of May we fought the bloody and decisive battle of Baker's Creek, in which the entire force of Vicksburg, under General Pemberton, was defeated with a loss of 29 pieces of artillery and 4000 men. On the 17th of May we defeated the same force at the Big Black River b[r]i[d]ge, with the loss of 2000 men and seventeen pieces of artillery. On the 18th of May we invested Vicksburg closely. On the 20th General Steele carried the rifle-pits on the north of the city.
The Southern reports tally with the Northern to this point. Admiral Porter officially reports that he has destroyed the navy yards at Yazoo City, together with three powerful steamers, a formidable ram, all kinds of machinery, and property valued at 2,000,000 dols. The Admiral then sent his gun-boats to Haines's Bluff, to the north of Vicksburg, which was being evacuated by the enemy, who, at the sight of the gun-boats, retreated hastily, leaving his guns, forts, and tents, which Porter captured. The Admiral destroyed all the works, encampments, and gun-carriages, and then pushed the gun-boats up the Mississippi from below and opened fire on Vicksburg. For the operations which occurred after the 20th we must rely on Southern accounts exclusively. These come down to the 27th ult. Up to that day three assaults made by the Federals had been repulsed. In the first their loss is estimated at 1000 killed and wounded. The last was made by General Sherman, with 20,000 men, and he lost 600 killed and a large number wounded. The Federal outer lines were within 100 yards of the Confederate outer works.
The Confederate fortifications consist of a chain of forts 800 yards apart, connected by deep intrenchments, and extending several miles. General Pemberton commands the garrison of Vicksburg with from 15,000 to 20,000 men. Confederate General Johnstone is said to be at Jackson, with 15,000 men, short of provisions. General Grant declares that he is fully able to protect his rear against any attack Johnstone can make upon it. Four thousand five hundred prisoners captured by General Grant have arrived at Memphis.
The Confederates are crossing the Rappahannock. General Lee has issued orders informing the troops they were about to have long and rapid marches in a country without railroads, and warning them to prepare for severe hardships. It is not known in what direction General Lee intends to move.
A coloured regiment has left Washington for the seat of war amid much enthusiasm.
The New York Commercial Advertiser says:--"All the prisoners taken on the Rappahannock have been exchanged, and it appears that the number captured by us is just half that captured by the enemy. The South claims to present a list in excess of 8000, while ours is little more than 4500."
General Burnside has informed General Bragg that be should hang ten Confederate officers if the Confederates retaliated for the two who General Burnside asserts were spies, tried and condemned in accordance with the usages of war.
Mr. Vallandigham was delivered by the Federals into the Southern lines, near Shelbyville, in Southern Tennessee. To the officer who received him he said:--"I am a citizen of the State of Ohio and of the United States. I am here by force and against my will. I therefore surrender myself to you as a prisoner of war." General Bragg had received him at head-quarters.
It is officially stated that the length of coast blockaded by the Federal squadrons, from Alexandria, Virginia, to the Rio Grande, is 3500 miles. There are 189 openings on this line of coast.
The Alabama, in company with the Florida, has destroyed ten more Federal vessels.
Miscellaneous.
Only one contract has been made and carried out by the Federal Government for the voluntary transportation of free persons of colour beyond the limits of the United States, and that was at the rate of 50 dols. each for 500 of them, in families, to the Island of Avash, near St. Domingo. Various applications have been made from the West Indies for such supplies of black labourers, but the Federal Government declines to make any more such contracts under the power vested in the President by the Colonisation Act.
The Boston Journal states that Mr. Seward has severely rebuked Mr. Webb, the American Consul at Rio, for his letter to Earl Russell respecting his quarrel with Mr. Christie, the British Consul.
The number of emigrants arriving at the port of New York has amounted, for several weeks past, to 1000 per diem. They are principally from Ireland. These numbers are threefold those of last year.
On the 21st ult. Miss Giselle Meszlenyi, a niece of Louis Kossuth, was married, at the First Presbyterian Church, New York, to Mr. Adalbert Ambrozowitz, a Hungarian gentleman of high position, who visited America for the purpose of taking the lady home as his bride.