
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
We have intelligence from New York to the 19th ult.
It is stated semi-officially that Jefferson Davis is to be tried in a civil court for high treason, that the writ of habeas corpus is to be restored, and that military courts are to be suspended.
The ordinance prohibiting the Legislature from passing laws imposing any civil disability, punishment, or forfeiture of estate upon citizens engaged in the late civil war, or for political opinions occasioned thereby, has passed a first reading.
It is now denied that there are any Cabinet differences at Washington on the subject of reconstructing the Union.
The New York Herald states that General Lee has been offered and has declined the presidency of Washington College, Lexington.
The Constitutional Committee of the Mississippi State Convention has reported in favour of the State Constitutional Amendment abolishing slavery.
The Maine Democratic Convention has indorsed President Johnson's reconstruction policy.
The military authorities of Charleston have ordered all editors to submit their leading articles to the authorities before publication.
A frightful picture is drawn of the condition of Texas, the interior of which is said to be reduced to barrenness, owing to the neglect of agriculture, whilst society is demoralised and robbery and outlawry are supreme.
The Times Washington despatch says:--"Statistics show that during the rebellion the Federal armies captured over 300,000 prisoners, besides patrolling about 160,000 more of the final surrender."
In New Orleans an extensive system of negro schools is in operation. There are 230 teachers, and 15,000 children are taught in the daytime, and 5000 adults at night. A military tax of one cent in ten dollars is levied on all real estate to defray the expenses of these schools.
On Aug. 1, 3394 bales of cotton arrived in Mobile, the largest amount that has reached there in one day for a number of years.
A magazine in Richmond, containing 2000 rounds of shell and other ammunition, exploded on the 15th ult., destroying property valued at 100,000 dols. Only two lives were lost.
A collision occurred, on the 16th ult., on the Housitonac Railroad, near Bridgeport, Connecticut, by which six ladies, a man, and two boys were killed, and fifteen severely wounded.
Great excitement was caused in New York, on the 10th ult., by the suspension of the banking-house of Kitchum, Son, and Co., in consequence of the discovery of extensive issues of forged gold certificates and abstraction of funds and securities by one of the partners, Edward Kitchum. The amount of the defalcation is variously estimated at from two and a half to five millions, involving in losses several bankers and brokers. Edward Kitchum had absconded with upwards of 600,000 dols. of the abstracted funds in his possession. A reward of 5000 dols. had been offered by the Importers' and Traders' Bank, which lost heavily by his defalcation, for his arrest.