
Echoes of the Week

ECHOES OF THE WEEK.
...America and England are soon to be again linked together, the Atlantic telegraph cable of 2600 miles being this week completed. If successful, let us hope that, as English money has made the cable, an English ship has taken it out; as it has been made upon English ground, designed by an English firm, and has owed its construction to English inventors, our Transatlantic friends will let us have a little more credit in the matter than they did some years ago, when the junction was made complete for one moment and then failed. How many ardent English souls felt bitter disappointment then! Mr. Thackeray was one who lost a thousand pounds in that adventure for the partial success and incipient boldness of which Mr. Cyrus W. Field and the Americans took all the credit, and gave the blame of non-success to the elements. It may seem to some of little moment if, while we know whose the true merit is, we allow others to take away the praise; but in reality this weakness does re-act upon us. The unthinking flock to the most prominent and powerful or prominently powerful, and eventually a mass of such people become of weight. If his own country really knew America as well as the Hon. D'Arcy M'Ghee, England would be saved some sad, sad trouble in Ireland. It is because impulsive Paddy believes that the Yankee pays better, talks louder, does greater things, stoops lower, jumps higher, dives deeper and comes out drier than any one else in the world that he is attracted by thousands to his shores....
Of general Echoes silence must be taken as the antithesis to the Irish echo, which repeated more than it heard. There is a "monster" meeting of teetotallers on Hampstead Head on Whit Monday for the purpose of promoting the Prohibitory Bill. Lord Fermoy and the borough and county members have been invited to attend. Pleasant irony, is it not? The representatives of the press will be "accommodated." In France M. Montalembert has declared that the victory of the North is one of virtue over vice, liberty over slavery; and the medallists of Paris--who, by-the-way, cut some of the finest medals ever seen to commemorate the Russian defeat of Napoleon--will issue a gold medal to the memory of Abraham Lincoln. Ex-President Davis languishes in the casemates of Fortress Monroe; a letter in cipher has been brought as witness against him; and Governor Brown, of Georgia, Governor Smith, of Virginia; and Governor Magrath, of South Carolina, will be produced (the latter when caught) as witnesses against him. Even the journals which defend him are, according to the Daily News, "taking a course calculated to diminish whatever chances there may be of saving him from the scaffold." Mr. Davis may meditate upon the treatment of Richard II., for, like him, he is in that position that "none are so poor as to do him reverence." We wait to hear two things from America--the first is the effect of the Queen's letter and English condolence; the second a denial or a confirmation of the astounding statement that the counsel appointed for political prisoners have, with one exception, that of Mr. Reverdy Johnson, refused to defend the accused.