
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
War Intelligence.
Alternate advance and retreat seem to be the order of the day in Virginia. This time it is General Meade who makes the forward movement. On the 7th inst. two divisions of his army, under the command of Generals French and Sedgwick, advanced to the north bank of the Rappahannock and captured the Confederate redoubts at the Rappahannock Bridge and Kelly's Ford, together with 1800 prisoners and seven guns, after a sharp engagement, in which the Federals lost 800 men according to one telegram, and 400 according to another. On the 8th inst. the whole Federal army crossed the Rappahannock, and advanced, with little opposition, towards Culpepper, while the heights of Fredericksburg were reported to have been occupied by General Kilpatrick's Federal cavalry. On the morning of the 9th inst. "heavy firing" in the neighbourhood of Culpepper was heard; but nothing was known in New York respecting its origin or result.
Chattanooga despatches of the 3rd inst. state that the Confederates on Lookout Mountain (stated in a previous despatch to have been relinquished by them) were shelling General Hooker's position in Lookout Valley, and added that General Bragg's forage-train had been captured. There had been, it is said, some severe fighting between the Confederates and General Sherman's corps near Tuscumbia; but we are not told either the date or the result. The Confederates had apparently commenced serious operations against General Burnside's corps; for official despatches announced that two of General Burnside's advanced positions had been captured, and that portions of two Federal regiments had thus fallen into the hands of the enemy. Part of the Confederate army was said to have disappeared from the front of the Federals at Chattanooga, and there were reports that at least fourteen Confederate brigades were across the Tennessee river, while there had been several sharp encounters between Federal detachments and bodies of Confederate partisans in Tennessee.
Despatches report that Columbia, Alabama, is in Federal possession, without giving details of its capture.
The Confederates had been repulsed at Colliersville, on the Memphis and Charleston Railway, and the General in command of them, with his Staff, had been captured. In Arkansas they had also been repulsed, and it was said that General Price had retreated beyond the Red River.
Charleston advices are to the 5th inst. The heavy bombardment of Fort Sumter by the Federals continued without cessation. Part of the sea-wall had fallen in, burying thirteen men. President Davis has visited the defences, and has expressed an opinion that they could never be taken.
Miscellaneous.
The elections in the State of New York have been decisively won by the Republicans. In New Jersey the Democrats are triumphant.
General Butler had been placed in command of North Carolina in the room of General Forster.
Mr. Seward has made a speech asserting that there could be no peace until Mr. Lincoln was president of the whole United States. He anticipated the early submission of the insurgents, "when there would be peace, and the angels in heaven might tune their harps to the symphony of such a peace." There was no State that had not been made stronger, and no citizen that had not been made richer by the war.
Governor Seymour has addressed a large meeting of the Democrats of New York, pointing out the immense number of men called to serve in the army, the serious loss of life, and the prospect of bankruptcy and ruin to the nation; and all for the purpose, not of restoring the Union and the preservation of the nation, but for the centralisation of power in the hands of the President.
President Jefferson Davis has made a speech at Mobile, reminding the troops that they were not common soldiers, but the best population of the country poured into the army, and he appealed to them from other incentives than military discipline. Self must be entirely forgotten in present times, and those who were hoarding up wealth were hoarding up infamy, the mark of which they and their posterity who shall have grown rich by war must bear.