
Foreign And Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the City of New York we have received telegrams to the evening of the 25th ult.

War News.
Reconnaissances from General M'Clellan's army continue to be made, but no general advance has taken place. Public dissatisfaction at this delay has reached such a pitch that it is affirmed, on authority that can hardly be mistaken, that the President has determined to replace M'Clellan by General Hooker.

The Confederates, under General Lee, are massed in the Shenandoah Valley.

In the Western department, General Buell has relinquished the pursuit of General Bragg, who has passed through Cumberland Gap into East Tennessee. The Confederates carried large trains of provisions out of Kentucky. The Southern journals declare that Bragg's invasion of Kentucky was a failure, while the Northern newspapers denounced General Buell for not having prevented Bragg's escape from that State. These complaints have so much weight with President Lincoln as to have impelled him to substitute General Rosencranz for General Buell.

In the neighbourhood of Nashville there has been a slight engagement. The Federal General Negley reports that the Confederates who had assembled at Lavergne, fifteen miles east from Nashville, with the intention of assaulting the city, were attacked by the Federals on the 6th and routed, leaving 170 prisoners. Nashville however, is entirely cut off from communication with the North.

An army correspondent of a Georgia paper sets down the Confederate loss in the attack on Corinth at 3000 in killed, wounded, and missing.

Another Federal Outrage.
The British merchant-ship Blanche, sailing between the Mexican port of Matamoras and Havannah, and carrying a cargo of cotton, was espied and pursued near the latter port by Captain Hunter, in command of the Federal gun-boat Montgomery. Instead of waiting for her the Blanche endeavoured to escape. The Montgomery ran her ashore six miles north of Moro Castle. The Alcalde, who had watched her movements from the shore, went on board the Blanche and hoisted the Spanish flag as a sign that she was under the protection of the Spanish Government. At the same time Captain Hunter, of the Montgomery, ordered two boats with armed men to board the Blanche and take possession of her. Against these proceedings the Alcalde and the captain of the Blanche protested. A quarrel ensued, in which the officer of the Montgomery slapped the Spanish official in the face, and with the aid of his men drove him and his three companions ashore. They then set fire to the ship and carried away the Cuban pilot of the Blanche. When the Spanish Governor at Havannah received the account of the affair, orders were given to a Spanish frigate to sail forthwith and capture the offending gun-boat. But the Montgomery had disappeared. Mr. Tenara, the Spanish Minister at Washington, has laid the matter before Mr. Seward. The result has been that the Federal Secretary of the Navy has published his letter of instructions to the naval officers, which goes to show that Captain Hunter acted solely on his own responsibility.

The Confederate States.
Yellow fever continues to rage in Wilmington, North Carolina. Coffins could not be obtained as fast as the citizens die.
The Confederate Congress had adjourned to Nov. 13.
The British steamer Rinaldo arrived at New Orleans on the 8th ult.
The superintendent of a plantation near New Orleans has been killed by negroes. The Federal military were called out and the insurrection quelled after several of the negroes were killed.
Richmond papers reported the presence there of John Mitchel, the Irish exile, two of whose sons were in the Confederate army.
A Confederate ram has been launched at Charleston.

Miscellaneous.
Federal officers have been appointed to report to the State department any cases of aliens actually draughted into military service, and who claim exemption.
There have been further disturbances among the Irish miners in Pennsylvania, with a view of resisting the conscription.
The stockbrokers' committee has reported that Government desire that gold speculation should not be fostered in the Stock Exchange. Gold was at 31 premium.
A scarcity of labouring-men was being experienced at New York, and the necessity of immigration had been urged by the Chamber of Commerce.
Mr. Gladstone's Newcastle speech was regarded as unfriendly in New York.
The hostility of the Democratic leaders and party to the emancipation policy of the President grows in strength.
The Great Eastern still remains at New York. It has been considered advisable to make a thorough examination of her bottom before sending her to sea. No date has been fixed for departure.