
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamers City of New York and Bohemian we have New York morning journals of the 23rd ult., and a telegram from Farther Point to the evening of that day.

War News.
The Federal loss in killed, wounded, and missing in the late battle of Chancellorsville is officially stated to be as follows:--Killed, 1989; wounded, 7867. Between l700 and 1800 of the wounded were so slightly hurt that they were not off duty a single day.
The chief interest in the recent operations centres in the valley of the Mississippi.
General Grant occupied Jackson, the capital of the State of Mississippi, on the 14th ult., having previously had a sharp fight at Raymond and Mississippi Springs, driving the Confederates from those places towards Jackson. All the public buildings were burnt and the stores sacked. Several hundred negroes sought refuge in the Federal ranks. Planters estimate the damage done at 5,000,000 dols., and the country rings with the cry of suffering. On the 17th General Grant evacuated Jackson and proceeded towards Vicksburg. On tho 18th General Grant met and defeated Lieutenant-General Pemberton near Edward's Station, on the Vicksburg Railroad, driving him across the Big Black River, after an engagement of nine hours' duration, in which Confederate General Tilgham, of Kentucky, was killed. The Confederates acknowledge the loss of sixteen guns.
The latest telegram received from Farther Point announced that on the 20th General Grant captured Haines Bluff and the entire works of Vicksburg, also a large number of prisoners and fifty-seven guns. The battle was still raging. General Joseph Johnstone was in command of the Confederates. If it be true that Vicksburg has fallen, the Federals command the whole of the Mississippi except Port Hudson.
Colonel Grierson, with a brigade of Illinois and Iowa cavalry from General Grant's army, had made a raid, passing from Tennessee through the heart of Mississippi, and reaching Bâton Rouge, Louisiana. Colonel Grierson travelled 800 miles in seventeen days, destroying 4,000,000 dols. worth of property, and portions of several railroads, besides capturing 1000 prisoners and 1200 horses.
Admiral Farragut had arrived in New Orleans. He brought intelligence that Admiral Porter, with the joint fleet of both Admirals, had taken possession of Alexandria, seventy miles up the Red River. On the same day General Banks's forces arrived at Alexandria, forming a junction with Admiral Porter. Alexandria was abandoned by the Confederates, who retreated to Shreveport, and took their gun-boats above Red River Falls. The capture of this point intercepts the Confederate supplies from Texas and Arkansas.
General Banks has ordered an organisation of coloured troops, to be called the "Corps d'Afrique," and to consist of eighteen regiments of infantry, cavalry, and artillery. They are to be organised and instructed by the best army officers.
At Suffolk, in Eastern Virginia, two Federal regiments fired upon each other by mistake, killing and wounding a large number. Two companies of Federal mounted rifles were surprised and cut up by the Confederates.
A Court of Inquiry into the case of the killing of Colonel Kimball by General Corcoran has been in session at Suffolk since the 6th ult.
The new coloured regiment organised in Massachusetts has been ordered to Port Royal, South Carolina.
General Meagher's resignation has been accepted by the President.
General Stoneman's raid has been overrated. The Richmond and Fredericksburg road was so little damaged that it was repaired in twenty-four hours.
Miscellaneous.
The Federal debt is now estimated at 984,000,000 dols., of which 400,000,000 dols. is in legal-tender currency.
In consequence of disturbances at places of amusement at New Orleans, the Provost Marshal has ordered all the programmes of the entertainments to be submitted to him. They are not to be interspersed with national airs. Several New Orleans schoolmistresses have been heavily fined for permitting the children to draw Confederate flags and sing Southern songs.
The military Court sentenced Mr. Vallandigham to imprisonment in Fort Warren during the war. President Lincoln, however, commuted this sentence to expulsion beyond the Federal lines. The Democratic party has espoused Mr. Vallandigham's cause, and public meetings of this party, approved of by the Governor of New York State, have been held in Albany and New York City. In Indiana a State mass meeting has been held at Indianapolis, the capital. The Administration is denounced as aiming at a military despotism.
A large quantity of free-grown cotton is said to have arrived at New Orleans from Western Louisiana, and more was expected.

The Death Of General Jackson.
The Richmond Inquirer gives full particulars of the circumstances which led to the wounding of General Jackson. He had ridden, late at night, on Saturday, the 2nd ult., in advance of the skirmishers, attended by his Staff and part of his couriers. On returning, the cavalcade was mistaken for the enemy's cavalry and fired upon by a regiment of his own corps. He was struck by three balls, one through the left arm, two inches below the shoulder-joint, shattering the bone and severing the chief artery; another ball passed through the same arm, between the elbow and the wrist, making its exit through the palm of the hand; a third ball entered the palm of the right hand about its middle, passing through, and broke two bones. He fell from his horse and was caught by Captain Wormley, to whom he remarked, "All my wounds are by my own men." Several of his Staff and attendants were killed and wounded. The General was placed in a litter; but the firing had attracted the attention of the enemy, who opened fire an their side. They shot down one of the litter-bearers, and the General fell from the shoulders of the men, receiving a severe contusion, adding to the injury of the arm and injuring his side severely. After amputation he complained of the effects of the fall from the litter. On Tuesday his wounds were doing so well that he inquired how long he should be kept from the field. On Wednesday night, however, the inflammation set in, which caused his death on the following Sunday. On that day he sent messages to all the Generals, and expressed a wish to be buried in Lexington, in the valley of Virginia. He frequently desired his Aides to report his hope that Major-General Ewell should be ordered to command his corps.