
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
We have news from New York, by the Peruvian, to the evening of the 15th inst.
There had been no more fighting in the neighbourhood of Richmond. General Grant had returned to Petersburg, after having visited President Lincoln at Washington. General Lee's account of the engagement on the north of the James River, on the 7th inst., stated that the Confederates attacked the Federals on the Charles City road, drove them from two intrenched lines, and captured ten guns, but that, finding the enemy further strongly intrenched, they did not press the Federals. On the other hand, General Grant's report stated that on the 7th inst. the Federals only lost 400 men, while the Confederate loss amounted to 1100 men.
General Longstreet was said to have superseded General Early in the command of the Confederates in the Shenandoah Valley. The Federals under General Sheridan had retreated down the valley as far as Strasburg. He was pursued by the Confederate cavalry under General Rosser, but had, we are told, routed his pursuers near Strasburg, taking eleven guns and 300 prisoners. During his retreat he had desolated the whole country, and had burned all the houses for a distance of five miles.
Several guerrilla bands have entered Maryland.
General Sherman, writing to Major-General Halleck, Chief of the Staff, on the 9th inst., from Alatoona, reports as follows of the state of things in Georgia:--
I reached Kenesaw Mountain, Oct. 6, just in time to witness, at a distance the attack on Alatoona. I had anticipated this attack, and had ordered from Rome General Corse with reinforcements. The attack was met and repulsed, the enemy losing some 200 dead and more than 1000 wounded and prisoners. Our loss was about 700 in the aggregate. The enemy captured the small garrisons at Big Shanty and Ackworth, and burned about seven miles of our railroad; but we have at Alatoona and Atlanta an abundance of provisions. Hood, observing our approach, has moved rapidly back to Dallas and Van Wort, and I am watching him in case he tries to reach Kingston or Rome. Atlanta is perfectly secure to us, and this army is better off than in camp.
The Richmond journals had published a despatch announcing that Rome had been taken by the Confederates, who had made 3000 prisoners; and other Southern journals assert that the movements progressing in Georgia render Sherman's position untenable. A flotilla of Federal transports which was ascending the Tennessee River had been attacked by General Forrest's Confederates, who destroyed two transports and compelled the others to retire with some loss.
The Confederate General Price had proclaimed his intention to remain in Missouri, and had passed the Osage River and moved westwards. His army, which was said to be 20,000 strong, was pursued by 8000 Federal cavalry under General Pleasanton, who had engaged its rear at Jefferson, while the Federal General Curtis, coming from Kansas, engaged General Price in front. The result is not reported in the Northern accounts; it may therefore be presumed to have been favourable to Price, as he has expressed his intention to remain in the State. Price's head-quarters were, at the time of the latest news, at Borneville.
It is reported that the preparations which were being made for a Federal attack on Wilmington, both by sea and land, were nearly completed.
President Davis has returned to Richmond from his visit to Georgia.
Vice-President Stephens has written a letter in which he says that the only key-note to peace is the acknowledgment of the sovereignty of the States. He favours an armistice and a convention of the States, and believes that the question of the boundaries of the confederacies--union or unions--would adjust themselves to the interest of parties and the exigencies of the times.
The elections in Indiana and Ohio were said to have resulted in a victory of the Republican party by a large majority, but in Pennsylvania the Democratic party had gained largely, and the soldiers' vote was awaited to decide the result of the election. In the State of Maryland it was expected that the popular vote would ensure the adoption of an anti-slavery constitution.
The "Democratic National Committee" had issued an address protesting against the suppression of Democratic journals and the imposition of test oaths at the elections in Tennessee. This address was couched in threatening language, and vehemently condemned President Lincoln's revolutionary purpose.
The death of Chief Justice Taney, of the United States Supreme Court, is announced. It is reported that Mr. Case will succeed him.
The bids for the loan of 40,000,000 dols. amount to 60,000,000 dols. The tenders range from par to thirty hundredths. The public debt is now estimated at 4,000,000,000 dols. The price of gold has risen at New York, the last quotation being 119 prem.
The case of the passengers of the steam-ship Ella has been decided in favour of the Government.
The New York Commissioners of Emigration report that in the year 1864, up to Oct. 5, 151,393 immigrants had arrived; in the corresponding period of 1863, the number was only 119,512.