
Latest News from Abroad

LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD.
The following telegram has been received through Mr. Reuter's office:--
AMERICA.
Arrival of the Pennsylvania (via Crookhaven).
New York, Sept. 23 (Evening).--After the battle near Winchester, Sheridan pursued Early beyond Strasburg, and again attacked him at Fisher's Hill. Sheridan's report states that the right of the Confederate army rested on the north fork of the Shenandoah, extending across Strasburg Valley westward to the North Mountain, and occupying apparently an impregnable position. After much manœuvering, Crook's command was transferred to the extreme right of the line of the North Mountain and attacked the enemy's left, carrying everything before him. Whilst Crook drove away the enemy and swept down behind their breastworks, the 6th and 19th Corps attacked the rebel works in front, and the whole army appeared to be broken up. They fled in the utmost confusion, and sixteen guns were captured. The darkness only saved Early's army from total destruction. On Thursday night Sheridan pushed on down the Shenandoah Valley. Two divisions of cavalry went down Luray Valley. Sheridan says if they push on to the main valley the result of the engagement will be more signal.
Correspondents' letters assert that Early's loss in prisoners in the first day's fight will approximate to 5000. Among the killed and wounded were Confederate Generals Rhodes, Ramson, Gordon, Terry, Goodwin, Bradley, Johnson and Fitzhugh Lee. The Federal loss in the same battle is estimated at between 2000 and 4000 men.
General Sherman is strongly fortifying Atlanta.
General Price has crossed the Arkansas River for an invasion of Missouri. General Shelby is co-operating. The Missouri militia retreated before Shelby from Charleston to White Water River.
Fremont and Cochrane have withdrawn from the presidential canvass.
Postmaster-General Blair has retired from the Cabinet, at President Lincoln's request.
The Democratic peace party have resolved to support General M'Clellan.
The Richmond Inquirer contains a report that Sherman has proposed an informal peace conference with the Governor of Georgia and Vice-President Stephens. Numerous other peace rumours are current.