
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer Edinburgh we have news to the morning of the 8th inst.

War News.

General M'Clellan's army has again advanced into Virginia along the left side of the Blue Ridge. All the approaches to Manassas are in possession of the Federals. They also occupy Warrenton. The Federals have received no information of the position or movements of General Lee's army.

An expedition, consisting of 12,000 men and several gun-boats, has left Newbern, North Carolina. Its destination is unknown.

A Philadelphia paper contains a letter from its correspondent in North Carolina stating that 3000 Confederates had surrendered unconditionally to General Foster's expedition at Plymouth, North Carolina.

Mr. Seward has disavowed the act of the Commander of the United States' steam-ship Adirondack in continuing the chase of the British ship Herald when she was within the maritime jurisdiction of the Island of New Providence. The act is spoken of as "an inexcusable violation of the law of nations, for which acknowledgment and reparation ought to be promptly made."

On the 18th of October ten Confederate prisoners were shot at Palmyra, Missouri, in accordance with the orders issued by General M'Niel. Porter's guerrillas had carried off some days previously one Andrew Allsman, from Palmyra, and General M'Niel promptly gave notice that if he were not returned to his family within ten days ten prisoners should be shot. Mr. Allsman was not forthcoming, and General M'Niel executed his threat.

The Federals have lately lost two Generals. General 0. M. Mitchell, the ex-astronomer and Abolitionist, died at Beaufort, South Carolina, on the 31st ult., of yellow fever. General Richardson died of the wounds received at the battle of Antietam. General Mitchell had control of the freed negro establishment in South Carolina.

The Alabama.
The New York Chamber of Commerce has appointed a committee to take measures for capturing the Alabama. A letter from Mr. Seward was read, acknowledging the receipt of the resolutions of the Chamber of Commerce concerning the destruction of American vessels by pirates, who, he says, are sent from the shores of a friendly nation in violation of the restrictions of municipal and international laws. Mr. Seward further says that he has directed the attention of the American Minister in London to the subject.

The owners of the barque Laureata, which was burned by the Confederate steamer Alabama, have protested before the British and Portuguese Consuls in New York, on the ground that their European nationality was certified by the Consuls' certificates, which were shown to Captain Semmes.

The Confederate States.

The Richmond Whig states that the order of the Secretary of War to enrol conscripts between eighteen and forty-five years of age is unpopular, if not odious, among a large class of the Southern people.

Some Texan slaveowners are shipping their slaves to Havannah for sale in the slave markets of Cuba.

Miscellaneous.

Horatio Seymour, the Democratic candidate for Governor, has been elected in the State of New York by a majority of 10,000 votes. The cities of New York and Brooklyn gave him 40,000 majority. In the State, nineteen Democrats and twelve Republicans were elected to Congress. The adjoining State of New Jersey voted the Democratic ticket by a large majority. In Illinois, the President's State, the Democrats have obtained a majority of 15,000. On the other hand, Governor Andrew and the Republicans have triumphed in Massachusetts, although Boston, like the other large cities, voted for the Opposition. This ensures the re-election to the Senate of Mr. Charles Sumner. In Michigan the Republicans have also triumphed. In Wisconsin the numbers are so close that it is as yet impossible to say which party has gained the day. The Republicans attribute their defeat to the absence of their voters at the seat of war and to the popular discontent at the inaction of General M'Clellan. The elections were conducted without disorder.

A three hours' discussion on the negro question has been held in the Cooper Institute, New York, between George Francis Train and Major-General Cassius Clay. The former took the pro-slavery and the latter the anti-slavery side. The audience was about equally divided; but Mr. Train's superior debating power gave him the advantage on the rostrum.

General suggestions are being put forward to send from New York voluntary contributions, in cargoes of grain, for the relief of distress in Lancashire.