
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
President Johnson has ordered the liberation of all prisoners of war, including Generals, upon their taking the oath of allegiance. All the prisoners at Fort Warren, except ex-Vice-President Stephens and Postmaster Regan, have been released on parole. Among those recently released from that and other points are Generals Ewell, Corse, Barton, Reynolds, Clark, and Edwin Johnson.
Conflicts between the citizens and returned Confederate soldiers continue throughout Tennessee. Guerrillas still infest Central Tennessee. Governor Brownlow has requested General Thomas to send troops into the counties of Tennessee to preserve order during the elections.
The majority of the Secession candidates have been elected in Virginia.
The Secretary for War has declared null and void all orders of military commanders in the south imposing restraints and punishments on coloured freedmen to which whites are not subjected.
It is reported that the hostile feeling between the Federal soldiers and the French troops along the Mexican frontier is on the increase; and it was stated at Cairo that the Mexican Government had ordered accoutrements for 35,000 men to be prepared at Matamoros, in consequence of the concentration of Federal troops about Brownsville.
The New York Zouaves at Charleston have mutinied and been disarmed. The officers have been sent to gaol and the men to Fort Sumter. The affair arose out of the late disturbances with the negroes.
The launch of the great ram Dunderberg (Thunder Mountain) was successfully effected, on the 22nd ult., from the shipyard of Mr. William H. Webb, New York. She is a seagoing iron-clad ram-frigate, of over 5000 tons register and 5000-horse power. She is to carry four 15-inch Rodman and fourteen 11-inch Dahlgren guns. Her length is 380 ft. and her breadth of beam nearly 73 ft. The weight of her armour is 1000 tons. Her contract guarantees fifteen miles per hour as her rate of speed.
The Secretary of the Navy has ordered the reduction of he Atlantic squadron to ten and the Mississippi squadron to five vessels.
A young woman named Harris, who was "courted" by a man named Burroughs, and who killed the latter when, without informing her of his intention, he married another, has just been acquitted at Washington, after a trial which lasted several days and filled dozens of columns in the papers. The murder was committed in the Treasury building, in the presence of numerous witnesses. The murderess made no attempt to escape. When the jury announced their verdict "Not guilty," a tremendous roar of applause went up in the crowded chamber--Judge, jury, defending counsel, and eye-witnesses uniting in a common shout. The woman Harris fainted in the arms of one of her counsel, who kissed her enthusiastically, and, after restoring her to consciousness, led her from the court-room. Bouquets showered upon her as she passed along--men and women rushed forward to grasp her hand or to kiss her.
The Confederate cruiser Shenandoah is still afloat and carrying on her depredations against Federal shipping in the North Pacific. The Captain was informed of the termination of the war, but discredited it.