
Illustrations of the War in America


ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE WAR IN AMERICA.
General Lee.
Our Artist in the Confederate camp, near Fredericksburg, has forwarded to us a Portrait of General Lee, Commander of the Confederate army in Northern Virginia, which is here reproduced. The Richmond correspondent of the Times writes as follows respecting him:--
"General Lee is, I believe, between fifty and sixty years of age, but wears his years well, and strikes you as the incarnation of health and endurance as he rears his erect soldierlike form from his seat by the fireside to greet courteously the stranger. His manner is calm and stately, his presence impressive and imposing; his dark brown eyes are remarkably direct and honest as they meet you fully and firmly, inspiring great confidence. The shape and type of the head a little resemble Garibaldi's, and the features are those of a much handsomer man. On the rare occasions when he smiles, and on the still rarer occasions when he laughs heartily, disclosing a fine unbroken row of white firm-set teeth, the confidence and sympathy which he inspires are irresistible. A child thrown among a knot of strangers would be inevitably drawn to General Lee first in the company, and would run to claim his protection. His voice is fine and deep but slightly monotonous in its tone. Altogether, the most winning attribute of the General is his unaffected childlike guilelessness. It is very rare that a man of his age, conversant with important events, and thrown to the surface of mighty convulsions, retains the impress of a simple ingenuous nature to so eminent a degree. It is impossible to converse with him for ten minutes without perceiving how deeply he has meditated upon all the possible eventualities of the campaign in Virginia, and how sound and well-considered are the positions which he advances. It is obvious that the most entire and trusting confidence is placed in General Lee by his subordinate officers, whose respect and affection he seems thoroughly to have won."

General "Stonewall" Jackson.

Although a Portrait of General "Stonewall" Jackson has appeared in this Journal, we offer no excuse for presenting another of the redoubtable hero from a sketch recently taken by our Special Artist in the Confederate camp, Northern Virginia, where General Jackson is at present located. Appended are a few particulars concerning him from the authority which we have just quoted:--

"At a distance of seven miles from General Lee's head-quarters, near the little village of Bunkerhill, were the head-quarters of General 'Stonewall' Jackson. I had been taught to expect a morose, reserved, distant reception; I found the most genial, courteous, and forthcoming of companions. A bright piercing blue eye, a slightly aquiline nose, a thin, tall sinewy frame 'made all over of pinwire,' a great disregard of dress and appearance--these are the characteristics of General Jackson's exterior. There is also about him every direct and honest look. The disappointing circumstance is that his voice, which is rapid in its utterance, is weak and unimpressive. Passionately attached to the Valley of Virginia, which has for so long been the principal scene of his achievements, idolised by the inhabitants of Winchester and of the valley, General Jackson has acquired such a fame in that entire neighbourhood that it is sad to think what would happen if the one life round which such prestige clings should yield to a stray bullet or to the chance of disease. Sinewy and wiry as the General seems, it is impossible not to fancy that he is wearing himself terribly by his restless, sleepless activity, by his midnight marches, and by the asceticism of his life. The respect and consciousness of his presence, and what that presence means, exhibited by his staff, impressed me very strongly, and seemed to exceed the respect exhibited towards General Lee ....As there are many conflicting reports about the origin of the name of 'Stonewall,' it may be interesting to repeat the true circumstances under which it was given. In the first battle of Manassas, on July 21, 1861, General Bee, of South Carolina (himself subsequently killed in the same action), observing his men flinching and wavering, called out to them to stand firm, exclaiming, 'Look at Jackson's men; they stand like a stone wall!' In his official report of the battle, General Beauregard employed the same expression in connection with General Jackson's command, and the name has clung to General Jackson ever since."

Thomas Jefferson Jackson was born in Virginia about the year 1825.