
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamers Anglo-Saxon and Hansa we have papers of the 30th ult., and telegrams to the evening of the same day.

War News.
The week has been an eventful one in the Valley of Virginia, although the policy of excluding newspaper correspondents deprives us of the power of following the movements of the opposing corps-d'armèe in detail.

On the 23rd ult. the Confederates attacked Rappahannock station, and compelled the Federals to abandon the line of the Rappahannock. The Federals fell back on Warrenton Junction, a distance of ten miles, after burning the bridge over the river.

On the 26th the Confederates made a bold and successful dash on Manassas Junction, in the rear of the Federal army. The Federals were driven out of Manassas, and lost a battery of nine guns. The Confederates destroyed stores which their enemies value at 500,000 dols., cut the telegraph wires, and destroyed the railroad, thus cutting off all connection between General Pope and Washington.

The Confederates afterwards proceeded to Bull Bun Bridge, and drove the Federals from that point, inflicting a heavy loss on General Taylor's New Jersey brigade, capturing two regiments, and wounding the General. The pursuit was followed up beyond Centreville. The pursuers' cavalry advanced as far as Fairfax Courthouse.

Immediately on this being known, Generals Pope, M'Dowell, Siegel, and Heintzelman hurried from different points to drive back the Confederates and intercept their retreat. General M'Dowell succeeded in interposing his corps between the forces of the enemy, who had passed down to Manassas through Gainsville, and their main body, which was moving down from White Plain through Thoroughfare Gap. The Confederate General Longstreet, who had passed through the Gap, being driven to the west side, Hooker's division came upon him in the afternoon of the 27th at Kettle Run, and, after a sharp action, routed him, killing and wounding 300, and capturing their camp.

On the 28th Pope arrived at Manassas Junction, but the Confederates under Jackson had evacuated the place three hours before. Jackson retreated viâ Centreville. Six miles west of that place Jackson came upon the divisions of M'Dowell and Siegel. The Federals report that in this fight, which lasted until dark, the Confederates were driven back at all points. General Pope claims to have captured from Jackson's rear 1000 prisoners and one gun. He joined Burnside and M'Clellan near Centreville.

On the 30th was fought the second battle of Bull Run. General Pope's account of it is as follows:-- Head-Quarters, Field of Battle, Grovedown, near Gainsville, Aug. 30. To Major-General Halleck, General-in-Chief at Washington.--We fought a terrific battle here yesterday with the combined forces of the enemy, which lasted with continuous fury from daylight until after dark, by which time the enemy was driven from the field, which we now occupy. Our troops are too much exhausted to push matters, but I shall do so in the course of the morning, as soon as Fitz-John Porter's corps comes up from Manassas. The enemy is still in our front, but badly used. We have no less than 8000 men killed and wounded and, from the appearance of the field, the enemy has lost two to our one. He stood strictly on the defensive, and every assault was made by ourselves. Our troops have behaved splendidly. The battle was fought on the identical battle-field of Bull Run, which greatly increased the enthusiasm of our men. The news has just reached me from the front that the enemy is retreating towards the mountains. I at once pushed forward a reconnoitring party to ascertain this. We have made great captures, but I am not yet able to form an idea of their extent. (Signed), John Pope, Major-General Commanding.

On the left, the Confederates have advanced to Leesburg within a few miles of the Potomac. The river was then fordable at all points above Washington.
In the west the events of the war are chequered.

The Federals had evacuated Bâton Rouge, and captured a steamer on the River Arkansas, laden with 500 stand of arms for General Hindman, stationed at Little Rock. The Confederate General Morgan had defeated 800 troops, under General Johnson, near Gallatin, in Tennessee, capturing 300 prisoners, including Johnson himself. The remainder of the Federals retreated to Nashville.

It is reported that the Federal Government is very short of arms. There are not enough to supply the troops arriving in Washington.

War meetings continue to be held throughout the Northern cities. Recruiting goes on satisfactorily, and the first 300,000 men are already secured. In addition to the States previously mentioned by us, Illinois has raised her quotas under both the first and second call. The State of New York has raised her quota of 59,000 under the first call. The process of draughting has been postponed in this and ether States until the 15th of this month. This delay is conceded by the State authorities on their own responsibility.

The stores are closed at three o'clock on Saturday afternoons in the Atlantic cities, in order to give time for volunteering, drill, and procuring substitutes. Persons have been forbidden to advertise that they procure substitutes.

Mr. Lincoln's Defence of His Policy.
The President has replied to the remonstrance addressed to him by Mr. Greeley, the editor of the New York Tribune, urging him to to proclaim the emancipation of the slaves:-- Washington, Aug. 22. Sir,--I have just read yours of the 19th, addressed to myself through the New York Tribune. If there be in it any statements or assumptions, I do not now and here controvert them. If there be in it any inferences which I may believe to be falsely drawn, I do not now and here argue against them. If there be perceptible in it an impatient and dictatorial tone, I wave it in deference to an old friend, whose heart I have always supposed to be right. As to the policy I "seem to be pursuing," as you say, I have not meant to leave any one in doubt. I would save the Union. I would save it the shortest way, under the Constitution. The sooner the national authority can be restored the nearer the Union will be, "the Union as it was." If there be those who would not save the Union unless they could at the same time destroy slavery I do not agree with them. My paramount object in this struggle is to save the Union, and it is not either to save or destroy slavery. If I could save the Union without freeing any slave I would do it; and if I could save it by freeing all the slaves I would do it; and if I could do it by freeing some and leaving others alone I would also do that. What I do about slavery and the coloured race I do because I believe it helps to save this Union; and what I forbear I forbear because I do not believe it would be to save the Union. I shall do less whenever I shall believe what I am doing hurts the cause, and I shall do more whenever I shall believe doing more will help the cause. I shall try to correct errors when shown to be errors, and I shall adopt new views so fast as they shall appear to be true views. I have here stated my purpose according to my view of official duty, and I intend no modification of my oft-expressed personal wish that all men, everywhere, could be free.--Yours, A. LINCOLN.

Miscellaneous. The appropriations made at the last Session of Congress reached the prodigious amount of 894,000,000 dols.--the largest amount ever appropriated by a Legislature in a single year.

The Great Eastern had arrived in Flushing Bay, having been beaten in her passage by the Persia. She struck a rock at Montauk Point, on the eastern extremity of Long Island, staving a hole in her bottom. The blow only penetrated the outer scale of the ship, the inner scale remaining intact. Efforts will be made to repair her at New York, but if this be found impracticable she will return in her present condition to England for repairs. In consequence of this mishap, she will not be exhibited, as had been previously announced.

The Central American States are about to protest against Mr. Lincoln's negro colonisation schemes. They declare they are willing to receive independent emigrants of every colour, but object to a systematic colonisation directed by a powerful foreign Government.

The new census of San Francisco gives a population of 90,000 against 83,000 last year. The city is in a very prosperous condition, having been benefited more than injured by the war in the Atlantic States.

A general war with the Indian tribes being anticipated, the Californian mails are to be forwarded by way of New York and the Isthmus of Panama, instead of overland by mail-coaches.
----
----
The New York papers state that a cargo of 400 slaves was landed last month within twenty-five miles of Havannah.
Oakum is being used by the surgeons of the Federal army in lieu of lint, and is said to answer extremely well.