
Echoes of the Week

ECHOES OF THE WEEK.
...Another "Times man" has made his mark in the Thunderer this week. Mr. Frank Lawley, some time special correspondent of that journal in the Southern States of America, has written a long and eloquent letter on the alleged maltreatment and starvation of Federal prisoners in Southern prisons, exculpating Mr. Jefferson Davis and General Lee from having in any way sanctioned the cruelties to which it was alleged the captives of the Confederate bow and spear were subjected at Richmond and Andersonville. Touching the whole question of the treatment of prisoners of war, North and South, during the late conflict, I venture to hold the opinion that there is a great deal to be said on both sides. Just this time last year I happened to be at Saratoga, and there I was waited upon by a deputation of Southern exiles, ladies and gentlemen, entreating me, as an Englishman, to move public opinion in my own country with a view to the melioration of the wretched condition of the Southern soldiers confined in Federal prisons. Then I bought in New York a large photographic portrait of a Northern "bhoy," recently released from captivity in the Libby prison, and who, by insufficient food, had been reduced literally to the condition of a skeleton; but photographs as painful might have been taken, I am afraid, of desperate cases of atrophy in the Lincoln Hospital at Washington.....
In which I am reminded of another "live Yankee," as droll in his way, in reality, as Sam slick was in fiction. I have the pleasure to inform my readers that "Artemus Ward" is coming, and that very speedily. He wrote me the other day from Buffalo, N.Y., introducing an American gentleman whom I should have been delighted to welcome, but whom, owing to my being at the period of his visit in the interior of Africa, I unfortunately missed. "I shall be with you soon," quoth Artemus, "with my Mormons and things." The "Mormons and things," in the shape of a lecture on Great Salt Lake City, were found irresistibly comical in the States. I wonder whether they would be appreciated here. We are so hard to please; and yet, if the public roar with laughter at "Mrs. Brown at the Play," they surely ought to scream with hilarity at the sayings of the drollest lecturer I ever listened to. On the whole, I should advise A. W. to put on "a clean biled rag," which is Artemisian for a clean shirt, and cross the Atlantic. If his Mormons and things don't take, he will be at least enabled to study some English peculiarities of which he can make good use when he returns to the U.S.