
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.

By the arrival of the Hansa at Southampton we have New York papers to the 14th inst.

War News.

From the army of the Potomac we hear that General Burnside is to detach an army of 35,000 men and proceed to Suffolk by way of Fortress Monroe.
General Foster's expedition was disembarking at Helena Island, off the coast of South Carolina.
Rumours are rife of disputes between Generals Foster and Hunter, the General in command of the department. General Foster had returned to Washington for further instructions.

The official reports of the Confederate commanders, Ingraham and Tucker, make no mention of the raising of the blockade.
The British Consul at Charleston, Mr. Bunce, left that city for Havannah on board her Majesty's ship Cadmus.
General Hunter had informed the Confederate authorities of Georgia that he should hold all prisoners in close confinement and answerable with their lives for the safety of the Federal officers captured by the Confederates until President Davis's retaliation proclamation was withdrawn.
The Federal ram Queen of the West ran the gauntlet of the Confederate batteries on the Mississippi. She met and sank three steamers with provisions for the garrison at Vicksburg, and took 56 prisoners.
The Federals have cut the levees on the eastern side of the Mississippi, twelve miles above Helena, at Yazoo Pass, and at two other places. Their object is to lay the surrounding region under water, so as to allow their gunboats to get to the rear of Vicksburg.

An Illinois regiment, attached to General Grant's army, had been placed under arrest for refusing to fight under the emancipation proclamation.

Washington.

Mr. Seward has replied to M. Drouyn de Lhuys' note suggesting a conference between the Federals and Confederates. The reply is firm and peremptory in declining the proposal. Its spirit may be gathered from the following paragraph:--
On the other hand, as I have already intimated, this Government has not the least thought of relinquishing the trust which has been confided to it by the nation under the most solemn of all political sanctions; and if it had any such thought, it would have still abundant reason to know that peace, proposed at the cost of dissolution, would be immediately, universally, and indignantly rejected by the American people. It is a great mistake that European statesmen make if they suppose this people are demoralised. Whatever, in case of an insurrection, the people of France, or Great Britain, or Switzerland, or of the Netherlands, would do to save their national existence, no matter how the strife might be regarded by or affect foreign nations, just so much, and certainly no less, the people of the United States will do, if necessary, to save for the common benefit the region which is bounded by the Pacific and Atlantic coasts, and by the shores of the Gulfs of St. Lawrence and Mexico, together with the free and common navigation of the Rio Grande, Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, Ohio, St. Lawrence, Hudson, Delaware, Potomac, and other national highways by which this land, which to them is at once a land of inheritance and a land of promise, is opened and watered.

A despatch of M. Mercier, the French Minister at Washington, in which he informed M. Thouvenel that his visit to Richmond was fully acquiesced in, and even encouraged, by Mr. Seward, having been published in the French Livre Jaune, the United States' Senate passed a resolution requesting the President to inform them as to what had passed between M. Mercier and Mr. Seward. This resolution has drawn forth a categorical reply from Mr. Seward, which denies that he at all encouraged M. Mercier to visit Richmond.

The Senate had adopted resolutions asking the President for any information of which he may be in possession relative to the employment of negroes by the French in Mexico. The Senate has also passed the bill for compensating Missouri for her slaves in the event of her emancipating them, and a bill taxing the bank circulation 1 per cent for two years and 2 per cent thereafter.

A deputation of the leading publishers and journalists was at Washington, endeavouring to procure a total repeal of the duties on paper, which now amounts to 35 per cent on the value, which, during the present high rate of exchange on Europe, is a prohibitory tax.
A bill to enlarge the Illinois and New York canals has been defeated in the House of Representatives.

Miscellaneous.

The movements in indirect opposition to the war continue. The Illinois Legislature, by a vote of 52 against 28, have passed peace and conference resolutions. The Republican Governor of Pennsylvania has sent a message to the State Legislature condemning arbitrary arrests. Mr. Horace Greeley, the editor of the New York Tribune, an emancipationist journal, declares in favour of entertaining proposals for peace if, at the end of another three months, the "rebellion" remains in full vigour.
The Illinois Legislature, exasperated by the defeat of the Canal Enlargement Bill in Congress, have resolved to direct the Governor to appoint commissioners to the Canadian Parliament to concert measures for the improvement of the means of transportation to the Atlantic, by way of the St. Lawrence route.

General Fremont has applied to be employed upon active service.
Nicholas Longworth, the celebrated Ohio manufacturer of native wines--particularly Catawba--died at Cincinnati on the 9th inst., in the eighty-first year of his age.
New York has been much exalted by the marriage, at a fashionable church in Broadway, of "General Tom Thumb," twenty-five years of age, 31 in. high, and weighing 29 lb., to Lavinia Warren, a native of Massachusetts, twenty-one years of age and 32 in. high. The brideman was a still more diminutive specimen of humanity, 29 in. high, weighing 25 lb., and nicknamed "Commodore Nutt." The bridemaid was a sister of the bride, weighing only 19 lb. and measuring 25 in., though aged sixteen years. The little couple are about to make the "grand tour" through Europe.

Mr. Webb, the great New York shipbuilder, has published a letter in which he denies having continued the construction of the ship General Admiral for the Russian Government during the pendency of the Russian War. He adverts to the fact that this vessel was not launched until 1858.

California.

So dear are cotton goods in California at the present time that merchants have begun to import articles of Chinese manufacture. A ship had arrived at San Francisco from Shanghai, bringing 700 bales of drills and sheetings.
A Democrat has been elected to the United States' Senate from this State after many days spent in fruitless ballotings.