
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE
AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer City of Baltimore we have New York journals to the 24th ult.

War News.

General Burnside, on the 20th ult., issued the following address to his army, preparatory to another assault on the heights beyond Fredericksburg:--
The commanding General announces to the Army of the Potomac that they are about to meet the enemy once more.
The late brilliant actions in North Carolina, Tennessee, and Arkansas divided and weakened the enemy on the Rappahannock; and the auspicious moment seems to have arrived to strike a great and mortal blow at the rebellion, and to gain that decisive victory which is due to the country.
Let the gallant officers of so many brilliant battle-fields accomplish this achievement, and a fame the most glorious awaits them. The commanding General calls for a firm and united action of officers and men; and, under the providence of God, the army of the Potomac will have taken the great step towards restoring peace to the country and the Government to its rightful authority.

A furious storm of rain impeded the promised advance of the army, but a statement received from the South announces that General Hooker had crossed the Rappahannock. The state of the Federal army, which is reported to amount to 135,000 men, inclusive of the reserves under General Siegel, is unsatisfactory. The men lack their old enthusiasm and self-confidence, are dissatisfied at not receiving their pay, and openly express their want of confidence in General Burnside.

On the 18th a small fleet left New York for some point South. It contained two new ironclads, built by Mr. Ericsson. These vessels, the Nahant and Weehawken, arrived safely in the Chesapeake after a boisterous sea passage.

The Confederate authorities have ordered that Federal officers captured after Jan. 12 shall be delivered up to the Governors of the States where captured. General Halleck has ordered that no more Confederate officers shall be released on parole.

The Federal steamer Columbia ran ashore at Masonborough Inlet, North Carolina, and her commander and crew surrendered to the Confederates.

In the West the Federal hospital authorities report that their total loss at Murfreesboro' was 10,287 in killed, wounded, and missing.

The Federal gun-boats continue their career of success in Arkansas. They have penetrated 300 miles up the White River, and have captured four more posts thereon.

On the 16th ult. a body of Confederates attacked the Federal relief and store ships proceeding up the Cumberland River in Tennessee, and succeeded in capturing five steam-boats laden with valuable commissary stores and the gun-boat Slidell. The negro crews were stripped of their clothing, tied to trees, cowhided, and left to starve on shore.

Washington.

The House of Representatives has rejected all that portion of Mr. Chase's financial project which relates to the substitution of a uniform Federal currency for the present local bank circulation.

The President, after signing the bill for the emission of 100,000,000 dols. in Treasury notes for the payment of the army and navy, sent a message to Congress begging it to pass Mr. Chase's financial schemes into law. The message was resented by the Senate as an attempt at dictation.

A series of resolutions have been introduced in the Senate by a California senator denouncing the French occupation of Mexico as a violation of international law and of the London Treaty of October 1861, and requesting President Lincoln to negotiate a treaty with Mexico, in order to give more effect to the views expressed in these resolutions. The New York papers, while approving of the spirit of these resolutions, concur in considering them ill-timed and impracticable.

The correspondence between the Mexican Minister at Washington and Mr. Seward has been published. The former complains of the unchecked shipment of waggons and mules from New York on French account. Mr. Seward's defence is that, as there has been no declaration of war between France and Mexico, the duties of neutrals do not attach to such a state of things. The Mexican Minister next complains that his side is not allowed to export arms from New York. Mr. Seward explains that this embargo results from a municipal law which forbids the export of arms from the United States at this crisis. The Mexican Minister charges the American Government with cringing to France.

The Washington National Intelligencer publishes eight columns of intercepted Confederate despatches, being letters of instruction to Messrs. Mason and Slidell, and other Confederate agents in Europe. The most important part of the correspondence relates to a movement on the part of the French Consuls at Galveston and Richmond to induce Texas to secede from the Southern Confederacy and establish an independent Government. The result of this discovery was an order to General Magruder to send the Consul at Galveston to Mexico as soon as possible, and the Richmond Consul to leave forthwith. The order, however, with regard to the latter was rescinded. It further appears that Mr. Mason was offended by the uncivil deportment of Earl Russell. The Confederate Secretary of State complains of the arrogance of many British statesmen as one cause why England is so little loved, and contrasts the unpoliteness of Earl Russell with the courtesy of M. Thouvenel.

Miscellaneous.

The inaugural address of the Governor of Delaware expresses strong Union and Emancipation sentiments, and favours a vigorous prosecution of the war. The message of the Governor of New Jersey is still more hostile to the Administration and Emancipation than was the message of Governor Seymour, of New York.

The tone of the Northern mind is more nervous and desponding than at any time since the commencement of the war. The Democratic hostility to the emancipation policy is daily making itself more troublesome. The tendency to mob violence is increasing. The New York Legislature has been unable to organise. The candidate of the Republican party for the office of Speaker has been threatened with assassination on the floor of the House by members of the Democratic party. A mob of "rowdies" from New York city have been present in the galleries and on the floor of the House. The Senate has requested Governor Seymour to call out the militia to protect the Assembly from the terrorism of the mob; but the Governor refuses to act against the most active spirits of his party. Similar scenes have taken place at Trenton and Harrisburg, the capitals of New Jersey and Pennsylvania.

Gold had advanced to 50 premium.