
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
War Intelligence.
We have received news from New York to the evening of Nov. 21.
Despatches from East Tennessee announced that, after four days' "heavy skirmishing," General Longstreet had driven General Burnside's army into Knoxville and had "completely invested the city." General Longstreet crossed the Tennessee River on the 14th ult., and General Burnside retreated before him. There was "skirmishing" between the Confederate vanguard and the Federal rear; and on the 16th ult. General Burnside "formed a line of battle" at Campbell's Station. An engagement ensued, and lasted from noon till sunset, when General Burnside "checked the Confederates' advance," but retreated during the night, and arrived at Knoxville on the 17th ult. General Longstreet attacked a work in front of Knoxville on the 19th ult., and after an action which lasted some hours the Federals abandoned their position and retreated to "stronger defences." General Burnside, we are told, in "private despatches" of the 19th ult., "represented his position as secure, but stated that communication with Cumberland Gap is interrupted." At Chattanooga the Confederates continued to shell the Federal camps from their batteries on Lookout Mountain. They were said to have received large reinforcements; but the Federal army had likewise been reinforced by the arrival of General Sherman's corps.
There is nothing new from the Rapidan, except that there had been some sharp skirmishing on its banks, in which the Federals were driven back. General Lee's army was in position between the Rapidan and Orange Courthouse. General Meade's cavalry had advanced to the Rapidan, and it was thought he would attempt the passage of the river, the fords of which Lee had strongly fortified. General Meade visited Washington on Sunday, the 15th ult., and, after a conference with Mr. Lincoln, returned to the army.
The Federals still keep up the bombardment of Fort Sumter. Charleston accounts of the 17th ult. state that four monitors had passed up the channel, apparently to ascertain the depth of water, and that twenty-five shots had been fired into the city, but had done no damage.
General Banks's expedition landed on the 2nd ult. at Brazos de Santiagen, on the Texan coast, nine miles from the mouth of the Rio Grande. On the 5th he occupied Brownsville without any resistance.
General News.
The bounties offered to soldiers in New York now amount to 700 dollars.
Gold had risen at New York to 54 per cent premium.
The United States' Marshal had seized all the cotton in New Orleans.
The cemetery at Gettysburg was dedicated on the 19th ult. President Lincoln, Mr. Seward, and the Corps Diplomatique were present. Mr. Everett made an oration.
The Federal General M'Neil, whose name has been rendered infamous by his previous execution of ten men in Missouri because a "Union man" had disappeared, had issued an order declaring that he will hang a guerrilla each time whenever the telegraph may be cut between St. Louis and Fort Smith.
Rev. H. W. Beecher had delivered a speech at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, in which he recounted some of his English experiences. He declared that the great intelligent minds and the labouring classes of England favoured the North, and he counselled a friendly policy towards England.
Mr. Wendell Phillips, the well-known Abolitionist orator, had made a speech in which he said that "President Lincoln had informed him that the greatest folly of his life was the issuing of the emancipation proclamation." The Tribune denies this: but the Herald asserts that Mr. Lincoln has on many occasions expressed this opinion.