
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.

The Montreal Company's steamer Hibernian has brought us Boston journals of the 31st and Canadian of the 30th ult.

War News.

General Burnside has resigned the command of the army of the Potomac, and General Hooker has been appointed his successor. Generals Franklin and Sumner have been relieved of their commands. In their places General Couch commands the right, General Mead the centre, General W. F. Smith the left, and General Siegel the reserve. Snow is six feet deep at Falmouth, and the roads are impassable. General Burnside's letter of resignation says that the army would, under more favourable circumstances, have accomplished great results. In General Hooker's short address on taking command there occurs the following passage:--
In the record of your achievements there is much to be proud of, and with the blessing of God we will contribute something to the renown of our arms and the success of our cause. To secure these ends your commander will require the cheerful and zealous co-operation of every officer and soldier in this army. In equipment, intelligence, and valour the enemy is our inferior. Let us never hesitate to give him battle, wherever we can find him.

General Burnside is to be examined before a Senatorial Committee concerning the obstacles thrown in his way by inferior officers. A list has been prepared of more than eighty army officers who are to be summarily dismissed from the service, for the use of improper language in reference to their superiors and the Commander-in-Chief in connection with the removal of General M'Clellan, and the court-martial and sentence of General Fitz-John Porter.

General Franklin has demanded a court-martial to inquire into the alleged charges against him of tardiness and inefficiency.
General Joseph Hooker is a native of Massachusetts. He served in Mexico on General Pillow's Staff, but resigned after the war. He was living in California when the war broke out. General Burnside has retired to his State, Rhode Island, where he has been flatteringly received by his fellow citizens.

The reports that the army of the Potomac is much "demoralised" by the attitude taken by the Democratic party are confirmed.
General Foster's (Federal) army in North Carolina has had a slight advantage, and was advancing in two columns in Wilmington and Kingston.

From Port Royal we hear that a naval conflict was impending between the Federal gun-boat Montauk and the Confederate ram Fingal, said to be guarding the steamer Nashville.

Accounts from Havannah report extensive depredations upon the American shipping in the West Indies by the Confederate steamer Orete, now called the Florida. Great consternation prevailed among the American captains in the West Indies, and several, whose vessels were ready for sea, had not ventured to leave port.

A Confederate steamer, supposed to be the Alabama, after a sharp engagement, sunk the Federal gun-boat Hatteras off Galveston. The Hatteras sank with all on board, except one officer and five men, who were picked up by the Brooklyn. The Hatteras was an ironclad carrying three rifled 32-pounders.

En revanche, the Federals have destroyed the Confederate iron-clad steamer in Bayoutche. They have also flanked the Confederate forces in that section.

The Federal forces in the south-west combined for a third attempt to open the Mississippi have commenced operations near the mouth of the Yazoo. General M'Clernand has left the Arkansas River and retraced his course to Young's Point, where it is reported that he has landed his troops. Generals Grant, Sherman, and Gorian will unite in the operations. General M'Clernand's troops have recommenced work in the canal dug some months ago by the negroes under General Williams, with the intention of diverting the channel of the Mississippi from the bed of the river opposite Vicksburg.

Washington.

The financial bill framed by the Committee of Ways and Means has passed the House of Representatives.

The chief subject of discussion had been the enlistment of negro regiments, to which the Opposition are bitterly opposed. They have hitherto prevented any vote being taken on the subject.

In the Senate, Mr. Saulsbury, of Delaware, was given into custody for using the phrase "that imbecile Lincoln." On being arrested by the Sergeant-at-Arms he drew forth a revolver, uttering threats against the Chairman and Mr. Sumner. The next day a resolution was brought forward to expel him from the Senate, but it was dropped on his apologising for his misconduct.

Governor Andrew, of Massachusetts, has obtained permission from the President to raise companies of persons of African descent, "organised into a separate corps," for garrison and other duty within the State.

The Administration is engaged in preparing to bring before the Supreme Court of the United States the important question of the power of the President in times of rebellion to suspend the writ of habeas corpus. The Administration is determined to settle this question at once, as there are many cases now pending in several State Courts, and additional ones are springing up almost daily. The latest is the arrest of Mr. Boileau, editor and proprietor of the Philadelphia Evening Journal on the charge of a treasonable article on Jefferson Davis's Message. His case is warmly espoused by the Democratic party in the State Legislature, and by the grand jury of the county of Philadelphia.

Miscellaneous.
The emancipation cause progresses in Missouri. Both Houses of the State Legislature have passed the resolution asking Congress to appropriate 25,000,000 dols. for emancipation.

The Republican candidate for Speaker has been elected by a majority of two in the New York Assembly.

General M'Clellan has been enthusiastically received by the people of Boston and many of the smaller towns in Massachusetts. Strong demonstrations in his favour have taken place in Congress. Some members in the course of the debate having urged his recall to the head of the army, the suggestions were met with loud cheering in the galleries.

Gold continues to rise in value. It has now reached 59 per cent premium. In San Francisco the legal-tender notes were worth only 60 cents in specie.