
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
General Grant has joined the army of the Potomac. He has issued orders to revoke all furloughs, to send baggage to the rear, and to direct sutlers to leave the army, in view of the resumption of active operation. Continuous rains, however, prevented any immediate movement. It was rumoured that a threefold advance on Richmond--namely, by Grant across the Rapidan, Smith up the Peninsula, and Burnside viâ Goldsborough, North Carolina--has been determined upon. The army of the Potomac, it is said, has been largely reinforced. General Meade has moved his head-quarters to Culpepper.
On the 12th inst. the Confederates, under General Forrest, attacked Fort Pillow, a few miles higher up the Mississippi than Memphis; and, after some fighting, they compelled the garrison of 600 men to surrender. It was said that they had massacred the garrison. No certain information had been received, however, relative to this latter part of the affair. The Confederates had also taken Paducah, but had been shelled out of it again. The Federal expedition up the Red River had defeated a body of Confederates near Cane River, and had taken about 500 prisoners. The Confederate General Marmaduke, with 3000 men, had made an unsuccessful attack on the Federal General Steele's division near the little Missouri River. The Federal Arkansas expedition is advancing towards Texas. It has had two successful skirmishes.
On the morning of the 9th the Confederates made an attempt to blow up the Federal flag-ship Minnesota, off Newport. The Minnesota was seriously damaged, but not sunk.
The Federal Senate has passed a resolution in favour of such an amendment of the Federal Constitution as shall for ever abolish slavery throughout the United States.
The Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, with the approval of the President and the Cabinet, had decided not to support the recent resolution of the House of Representatives relative to French operations in Mexico.
A scene has occurred in the Federal House of Representatives. Mr. Long, of Ohio, spoke in favour of peace, advocating the immediate recognition of the Southern Confederacy. Next day Speaker Colfax descended from the chair and moved Mr. Long's expulsion for treason. Mr. Harris, of Maryland, defended Mr. Long, and prayed that the South might never be conquered; whereupon Mr. Washburne, of Illinois, moved the expulsion of Mr. Harris. Eighty-one votes were in favour and fifty-eight against the latter motion; but, there not being a majority of two thirds, the motion was lost. A vote of censure on Mr. Harris was immediately afterwards carried, on the motion of General Schenck, against a minority of nineteen. The expulsion of Mr. Long was still under discussion. Several Democratic members declared that they indorsed Mr. Long's opinions.
There has been almost a panic in the money market. Gold rose to 189, but afterwards declined and closed at 176½.