
Meetings of Condolence on the Death of President Lincoln

MEETINGS OF CONDOLENCE ON THE DEATH OFPresident Lincoln.
A Public meeting was called upon very short notice, at St. James's Hall, on Saturday evening, to express condolence with the people of the United States, and with the widow and family of the late President Lincoln, upon the shocking event which took place at Washington on the 14th ult. The hall had been most appropriately decorated. The galleries were tastefully draped with black cloth, trimmed with white bandeaux, and relieved with a white and black mixed cord, in festoons. The upper gallery was similarly draped, and displayed a group of the American national colours covered with crape. The whole was completed (by Messrs. Garstin, of Welbeck-street, gratuitously) in little more than an hour, as the hall was otherwise engaged up to three o'clock. The hall was well filled in every part. The chair was taken by Mr. W. Evans, president of the London Emancipation Society. The meeting was addressed by Mr. W. E. Forster, M.P.; Mr. Peter Taylor, M.P.; Mr. Leatham, M.P.; Mr. T. B. Potter, M.P.; Mr. Baxter, M.P.; the Hon. Lyulph Stanley, Mr. H. Fawcett; Mr. Caird, M.P.; Mr. Grenfell, M.P.; Mr. Crum Ewing, M.P.; the Rev. Newman Hall, and Mr. Mason Jones, and the proceedings were of a very earnest and impressive character.
The following were the resolutions adopted:--
"That this meeting desires to give utterance to the feelings of grief and horror with which it has heard of the assassination of President Lincoln and the murderous attack upon Mr. Seward, and to convey to Mrs. Lincoln and to the United States Government and people an expression of its profound sympathy and heartfelt condolence.
"That this meeting desires also to express the entire confidence which it feels in the determination and the power of the Government and the people of the United States to carry out to the full the policy of which Abraham Lincoln's presidential career was the embodiment, and to establish free institutions throughout the whole of the American Republic.
"That copies of the foregoing resolutions be placed in the hands of the Hon. C. F. Adams, the American Minister, for transmission to his Excellency the President of the United States, Mrs. Lincoln, and the Hon. W. H. Seward."