
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer Etna we have telegrams from New York to the morning of the 21st ult.

War News.
There is nothing new from the army of the Potomac.

The Federal commanders of the vessels blockading Charleston have forwarded a joint refutation of General Beauregard's report that the blockade was raised. They declare that they never quitted the blockading line usually occupied by them, and that no vessel of any description crossed the bar after the Confederate rams returned to Charleston. In reference to the alleged statements of the foreign Consuls and the Commander of the British war steamer Petrel they say:--
If the statement from the papers, as now before us, has the sanction of the Commander of the Petrel and the foreign Consuls, we can only deplore that foreign officers can lend their official positions to the spreading before the world for an unworthy object untruths patent to every officer of the squadron.
General Beauregard has issued a proclamation stating that there were indications of an early attack on Charleston and Savannah and urging non-combatants to retire. He also appeals to all ablebodied Georgians and Carolinians to rush to arms without regard to choice of weapons. Pikes and scythes, he says, will exterminate their enemies, and spades and shovels protect their firesides.

General Hunter had assumed the command of the forces lately arrived at Hilton Head from Beaufort, South Carolina, and General Foster had returned to North Carolina.
The Governor of Virginia has addressed a letter to President Lincoln, informing him he would unflinchingly retaliate for any improper treatment of citizens or soldiers of Virginia.
The Federal turreted gun-boat Indianola has run the Vicksburg blockade of the Mississippi in safety.

The entire Federal fleet was in front of Vicksburg with all the mortar-boats in position for the attack. The Mississippi having overflowed its banks on the Louisiana side, the town of De Soto, opposite Vicksburg, has been submerged, and it is expected the whole peninsula will soon be under water.
Another Federal expedition has left New Orleans for Bayou Teche. It is denied that the Harriet Lane had escaped from Galveston.
The Confederate General Hindman's army in Tennessee is said to he demoralised. Three hundred of his troops were frozen to death in marching from Van Buren, in Arkansas.
The Confederate steamer Oroto is blockaded in Kingston, Jamaica, by two Federal vessels.

There has been a collision between a negro regiment and a portion of a Maine regiment stationed on Ship Island. The negroes are said to have fired on the Maine regiment, killing six.

Washington.
The Senate has refused to pass the bill for enlisting 300,000 negroes.
A bill establishing a national system of banking, based on Federal securities, has passed the House of Representatives, and awaits President Lincoln's signature to become law.
The Senate has passed a bill authorising the President, in all domestic and foreign wars, to issue letters of marque. The authority conferred by the Act is limited to three years. A proposal to grant this authority for the suppression of the rebellion only was voted down.
The Senate has also passed a Conscription Bill, rendering all citizens, and those who have declared their intention to become citizens, between the ages of twenty and forty-five years, liable to perform military duty when called out by the President. Persons enrolled are subject for two years to be called into service to serve for three years, or during the war, on the same footing with the present volunteers, advance pay and bounty included. The President can draught at any time, with ten days' notice to draughted men. Substitutes may be furnished, or commutation made. A motion to exempt clergymen from the conscription was voted down.
The Supreme Court at Washington is engaged in hearing appeals from the district Courts relating to the capture of vessels condemned for trying to run the blockade. The appellants are chiefly British shipowners.
Miscellaneous.
The Louisiana planters have accepted General Banks's proposal that negroes who shall return to the plantations and work during the period of one year shall be compensated by the planters. Negroes refusing these terms will be employed on public works.
The public are exceedingly mistrustful of the Emperor of the French, and believe that on the receipt of Mr. Seward's last epistle he will recognise the independence of the Confederate States. With these preoccupations, the news of the insurrection in Poland is welcomed, not because it holds out a prospect of the reconstitution of Polish nationality, but because it threatens to embroil France and divert the Emperor's attention and resources from American and Mexican affairs.
The news of the emancipation meeting in Exeter Hall had reached New York, and had fallen flat on the ear of all except the Abolitionists.
The Democratic members of the next Congress have been invited to meet in New York on the 8th of March.
The resolution calling a peace convocation at Louisville, Kentucky, has been defeated in the Senate of the Illinois Legislature.
The State Convention at Frankfort, Kentucky, at which delegates from forty-five counties were present, has been broken up by the military authorities, on the ground that the members, though calling themselves Democrats, were Secessionists.
General Butler had been honoured with a public reception in Baltimore.