
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
News from New York extends to the 19th ult. General Meade left Washington on the 15th to resume the permanent command of the army of the Potomac. The Federal General Sherman occupied Jackson, Mississippi, on the 5th ult., and had advanced to Brandon. A portion of his troops occupied Yazoo city on the same day. General Thomas is reported to have moved towards Dalton. These advances are considered to be the opening of the spring campaign in the south-west, which appears likely to comprehend a combined movement against Mobile, Savannah, and the Confederate armies and strongholds in Georgia. Naval and military expeditions now preparing at New Orleans are to co-operate. It is anticipated that the Confederates will open the spring campaign by a formidable raid into Pennsylvania.
President Davis has issued an address to the army thanking the troops for their alacrity. He says that "the spring campaign opens under auspices well calculated to sustain their hopes. Assured success awaits their struggle for liberty and independence."
President Davis has signed a bill prohibiting the exportation of tobacco, rice, sugar, and molasses, except by special permit; also a bill prohibiting the importation of luxuries after March next, and fixing the maximum price at which articles of silk, wool, flax, and cotton may be imported.
A despatch received at Washington from General Butler announces that Colonel Straight and about 100 Federal prisoners escaped from Richmond by tunnelling under the walls of the gaol. The Colonel and twenty other officers had arrived at Williamsburg. Butler had sent out cavalry as far as the Chickahominy to assist the flight of the escaped prisoners. Twenty-two officers had been recaptured by the Confederates and more were expected to be brought in. The guards of the prisoners were placed under arrest, charged with aiding the prisoners to escape.
General Banks had issued orders restoring compulsory labour in Louisiana under certain conditions, and declaring that it was the duty of the people to re-establish the civil Government, and that "indifference would be treated as a crime."
The Supreme Court has decided against Mr. Vallandigham's application to annul the sentence passed upon him by the military court.
The House of Representatives, by a majority of twenty-one, have passed a resolution in favour of an amendment to the Constitution abolishing slavery.
Details are given of a wholesale destruction of blockade-runners. The Wild Dayrell was run ashore near Stump Inlet, and was completely destroyed by her captors. The estimated value of ship and cargo was 200,000 dols. The steamer Nutfield, an iron paddle-steamer, which sailed from London in December last, and was bound from Bermuda to Wilmington, was run ashore to escape pursuit near New River Inlet. She also was fired and destroyed. Her cargo consisted of arms and ammunition, including a battery of eight Whitworth guns. Some of her crew were drowned in endeavouring to reach the shore in a boat. The steamer Dee, a new double-screw iron steamer, recently from London, was run ashore and burnt off Masonboro'. She was loaded with lead, coffee, and bacon. Seven of her crew were taken prisoners. The side-wheel steamer Fanny and Jennie was run ashore and destroyed in close proximity to the Dee. Twenty-five of her crew were taken prisoners. The capture of the Emily, a new steamer, from London, and of the steamer Cumberland are also reported. The latter was taken while on the passage from Havannah to Mobile, and was laden with arms and ammunition.