
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
The work of reconstruction in the South is proceeding satisfactorily, and President Johnson's policy is meeting with approval. The New York Republican State Convention has passed resolutions expressing confidence in him, approving his reconstruction policy, and pledging him its hearty support. The Wisconsin Democratic Convention have also indorsed the President's policy and tendered him their support.
The Alabama State Convention has requested the Governor to call out the militia for the purpose of repressing the disorder and lawlessness prevailing in several counties. Resolutions have been introduced into the Reconstruction Convention repudiating the Rebel State Debt, and declaring it the duty of the Convention to restore the State to her proper relations with the Federal Government, and that it was not expedient to change the State Constitution until next session of the Convention except to repeal the secession ordinance, and other ordinances consequent upon the same. They also acknowledge the abolition of slavery, and prohibit its restoration, declaring the slaves shall be protected and cared for. The resolutions also ratified the State enactments subsequent to secession not inconsistent with the Federal Constitution.
The message of Governor Perry, of South Carolina, is a remarkable document. Although he opposes negro suffrage, he urges kindness towards the freedmen, and the ratification by the Convention of the Constitutional clause abolishing slavery.
Mr. Johnson has appointed Mr. James Wells Provisional Governor of Louisiana, in order to reconstruct the State after the manner of other Southern States.
The official correspondence between Messrs. Seward and Adams, in March and August of the present year, in reference to the Confederate loan, and Vice-Chancellor's Stuart's decision in the Priolean case, has been published. Mr. Seward instructs Mr. Adams that he may, if necessary, inform the British Government, in a friendly and courteous manner, that the United States never admitted the combination of rebels to be a de facto Government, and will not be responsible for the rebel debt, and will insist on their claim for the restoration of cotton in the present case. While they are content to receive it through a decree of the British tribunals, they insist on their absolute right to it through the action of the British Government. The United States will hold themselves under no obligation whatever to accept or to conform their proceedings to conditions which the Court of Chancery or other municipal court may prescribe in the present or other litigation.
Sir Morton Peto, the Hon. Arthur Kinnaird, and the other Englishmen (spoken of generally as the English capitalists), who have been travelling through the western States, have created a sensation. Their movements are chronicled by the telegraph, and they are followed by a number of correspondents, who dispatch long letters to the journals describing the dinners, balls, and fêtes got up in honour of these tourists. As on all occasions they make speeches illustrative of good feeling and kindness between the two countries, their trip has assumed great political importance, and leading articles are written praising the remarks of the English speakers and applauding their repeated assertions that between England and the United States there should exist a true and sincere alliance.