
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer Bohemian we have telegrams from New York to the evening of the 16th inst.
War News.
Details of the sanguinary battle at Cedar Mountain have been published. It seems to have been one of the best fought and at the same time most fruitless engagements to which this war has given rise. The losses were heavy on both sides.

General Pope's official report of the battle at Cedar Mountain states that the loss of the Federals was 1500 killed, wounded, and missing, 300 of whom were taken prisoners. Federal General Prince was captured by the Confederates. Confederate General Winder was killed.

The Southern journals claim the victory at Cedar Mountain, and state that thirty commissioned officers of General Pope's army have arrived at Richmond, where they would be imprisoned, and finally punished as felons, until the Federal Government should cease the war policy inaugurated by General Pope.

General Pope has issued an order, stating that his proclamation directing the army to subsist on the country has been abused by officers and men, and forbidding all to molest or disturb the property of citizens. Acts of pillage and outrage will be punished.

General Fremont has again been appointed to command the first army under General Pope.

The Confederate General Jackson has safely crossed the Rapidan, and is south-west of Gordonsville with 60,000 men.

General M'Clellan's army is supposed to have retired from Harrison's Landing down the Peninsula--one portion by land vià Williamsburg, and another portion on transports down the James River. Both routes of retreat were liable to an attack from the Confederates; but it is reported that the movements have been successfully performed.

The Confederate journals report that their General Breckinridge had taken Bâton Rouge, the capital of Louisiana, on the 6th inst., after defeating the Federal forces and capturing their camp equipage and stores. General Breckinridge reports that the Federal General Williams and other prominent officers were killed.

From Richmond papers we gather the following concerning the destruction of the ram Arkansas:--After passing Bayou Sara, on the Mississippi, some portion of her machinery became disabled, and she was hauled in towards the shore for repairs. Whilst in this position, she was attacked by a fleet of Federal gun-boats from below. After a stern resistance she was abandoned and blown up. The officers and crew reached the shore in safety.

The accounts from Tennessee and Kentucky report a continuation of sporadic guerrilla warfare. A Confederate General, Caswell by name, has been assassinated, at his residence near Knoxville, by a Union Tennessean. Three hundred houses in Memphis have been seized by the Federals under the Confiscation Act. The Confederate General Morgan, who claims to have taken 20 towns, 1200 prisoners, and destroyed 2,000,000 dollars' worth of property, speaks in high terms of the valour of Colonel George St. Leger Grenfell, late of the British, now of the Confederate, Army.

The Federal General Phelps had resigned his position at New Orleans, because General Butler refused to supply arms for equipping his negro regiments. General Butler orders them to be employed in throwing up entrenchments, and refuses to accept General Phelps's resignation.

General Butler has ordered a forced contribution of 330,000 dols. from the banks, cotton brokers, and merchants of New Orleans for the support of the poor. The assessments are made in proportion to the sum subscribed by the merchants for the defence of New Orleans against the Federal Government. The forced contributions from each firm varies from 85,000 dols. to 6 dols. Nearly two hundred firms are assessed.

In some of the Northern States volunteering is progressing favourably. Maine and Michigan have already contributed their quota, and there will be no need to resort to draughting in those States. The large States of New York and Ohio ask for more time, which has been granted by the War Department. The process of conscription has therefore been postponed until September 1, in order to give the Northern States an opportunity of filling up their quotas by voluntary enlistments. Foreigners who have declared their intention to become citizens are not allowed to leave the country. Numerous emigrants enlist on landing. The Governor of Massachusetts has ordered the enrolment of coloured citizens among those subject to the draught.

A collision has occurred on the Potomac between two transports. Eighty sick soldiers were drowned.

Miscellaneous.

The Governor of Kentucky, in his message to the Legislature, recommends the adoption of the Crittenden resolution as a standing proposition for peace and the settlement of the war.

Mr. Cassius M. Clay, late United States' Minister to Russia, has made a speech at Washington devoted to abuse of the English Parliament, press, and people, and laudatory of France and Russia.

The municipality of New York has appropriated 1,000,000 dols. for the defence of the harbour by gun-boats and rams.

A letter from Richmond, dated the 3rd inst., says :--"There is a great deal of suffering here. Coffee sells at 3 dols. per. lb.; tea, 7 dols.; brown sugar, 75c. per lb.; eggs, per dozen; 1 dol.; milk, 1 dol. per gallon; calico, 75c. per yard; linen, 2 dols. per yard; hats, 14 dols.; boots, 25 dols. to 40 dols. per pair; shoes, 15 dols.; salt, 12c. per lb.; flour, 13 dols. per lb.; butter, 1 dol. per lb.; writing-paper, 30 dols. per ream; potatoes, 6 dols., per bushel; any kind of coal, 50 dols. to 75 dols.; pants, 25 dols." This scale of prices indicates not only a great scarcity, but a great depreciation in the paper money of the Confederate States.

In the North the crops of grain are heavier than in any previous year. In wheat alone the State of Ohio has an estimated surplus for export of 17,000,000 bushels.

The heat was so intense in New York and Brooklyn on the 9th and 10th inst. that upwards of fifty deaths were reported in the journals of the two following days resulting from coup de soleil and cholera morbus, induced by exposure to the sun.

Canada.

The Canadian Parliament has been unexpectedly summoned to meet on the 28th of this month.

It was expected that the war in the neighbouring republic would have largely increased the numbers of Europeans emigrating to Canada. This expectation has not been realised, the increase being this year only about six per cent compared with the season of 1861. The emigrants arriving at Quebec up to the 15th ult. ware 14,434 against 13,587 up to the same date in 1861. The immigration at the port of New York has fallen off in about the same proportion.

The immigration into Canada from the United States has, on the other hand, exceeded anticipations. The Montreal Advertiser says, "Canada is at present invaded by the Yankees; they are crossing the frontier in crowds--filling the railway cars, thronging the steamboats. A single train brought yesterday sixty young men from New York State. During the next ten days Canada will receive an addition of some thousands to her population. Many of the immigrants are mechanics and workmen, and the majority are young men between eighteen and thirty, and therefore liable to the first draught.
China.
A steam-boat explosion has occurred at Shanghai. The vessel which sustained the disaster is the Union Star, which had just arrived from California, and was on a trial trip when the accident happened. Upwards of a dozen lives were lost, one half of whom were Americans; in addition to which there were several persons injured.
