
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
President Lincoln has presented General Grant with the commission of Lieutenant-General in presence of the whole Cabinet. Grant, after visiting the army of the Potomac, returned, with Meade, to Washington, and left immediately for the west. The New York World asserts that Grant has recommended the concentration of forces for the capture of Richmond.
Rumours of General Meade's removal from command are again current at Washington. It appears that Generals Sickles and Doubleday assert that Meade issued an order for a retreat after the first day's fight at Gettysburg. This, however, Meade denies point blank in a letter to Reverdy Johnson, admitting, however, that he had arranged before the battle to take a safer position, and one where he could more advantageously accept battle, and dwelling with particular tenacity upon the point that that could not be a retreat which was to take place without a fight.
There is no news of importance from the army of the Potomac. A reconnaissance on the 5th to Ely's Ford discovered very few Confederates to the north of the Rapidan.
Suffolk, in Virginia, has been occupied by Butler's forces.
The Confederates continue to make demonstrations against Suffolk and Portsmouth, and have driven in the Federal cavalry and two coloured regiments.
General Sherman's return to Vicksburg is confirmed. He penetrated thirty-five miles beyond Meridian, destroying all railroads. His loss is stated to have been only 500 men.
General Johnston was pressing the Federal lines in Tennessee. The Federals have withdrawn from Tunnel Hill to Ringold. Longstreet's cavalry hold Bull's Gap, fifty-six miles from Knoxville. His army is at Greenville.
The Federals occupy Morristown, forty-two miles from Knoxville.
The failure of Kilpatrick's cavalry raid on Richmond was complete. Upon the person of Colonel Dahlgren, who was cut off and killed, papers were found informing the troops that their mission was to burn Richmond and release the Federal prisoners, and not to allow Jefferson Davis to escape. The Richmond press is strongly incensed, and urges that the severest treatment should be exercised towards the prisoners of Kilpatrick's command. The Northern press declares that the orders said to have been found on Dalhgren were forgeries.
Admiral Farragut has been bombarding Fort Powell, one of the defences of Mobile.
It is reported that 20,000 Confederates are advancing from Texas towards Western Louisiana. Active dispositions are being made by the Federals to check this movement. The Federals are also sending reinforcements to hold Jacksonville, Florida, but have abandoned further expeditions into the interior.
The New York Tribune's correspondent reports that the blockade-running at Charleston has been resumed, two or three steamers entering weekly.
Charges and specifications have been filed by Secretary Welles against Admiral Wilkes for disobedience of orders in taking and keeping the Vanderbilt for his flag-ship, when he knew that she was ordered on special service in South America; in refusing to send the Oneida and Cuyler to Farragut; for insubordination in going off with the Vanderbilt to Laguayra when he should have remained about the Bahamas, cruising for rebel privateers; for disrespectful language to his superior officer in writing an insubordinate and saucy letter to Secretary Welles; for disobedience of the naval regulations forbidding publication of official communications in giving a New York paper a copy of the above letter, and procuring it to be published therein; and conduct unbecoming an officer in refusing to tell the Department how old he was.
The House of Representatives has passed the bill authorising Mr. Chase to anticipate the payment of interest on the public debt, but not to sell gold.
The President had signed the whisky bill. It imposes a tax of sixty cents per gallon on all domestic-manufactured liquors from the passing of the Act, and forty cents on imported spirits on hand.
A bill had been introduced in the House of Representatives to secure to persons in the military or naval services of the United States homesteads on confiscated or forfeited estates in insurrectionary districts. It proposes to give to all persons who have been discharged therefrom by reason of wounds received or disease contracted therein eighty acres or a less quantity of the unappropriated lands, in conformity with the provisions of the Homestead Act. The bill was ordered to be printed.
In Congress Senator Pomeroy has advocated the claims of Secretary Chase for presidential nomination, stating his platform to be emancipation, confiscation, and the maintenance of the Monroe doctrine.
Secretary Chase has written a letter urging that his name should not be considered in connection with the presidency.
Fremont's friends are more active in advocating his claims for the presidency.
The Republican ticket has been elected by a large majority in New Hampshire.
The majority in New York have voted in favour of permitting soldiers and sailors to vote.
The Republicans have carried their elections in New Hampshire by re-electing the present Governor, Joseph A. Gilmore, by a majority of about 5000.
A severe earthquake was experienced at San Francisco on the morning of the 5th inst.
The gold diggings in Colorada and Idato territories are proving to be very rich, and bid far to outrival California. In both territories an immense amount of gold has accumulated in the hands of miners and others, but the insecurity of communication with the States prevents its shipment. A great deal is, however, sent viâ Salt Lake City to California.
The Southern Confederacy has dispatched an Envoy for the purpose of negotiating a treaty of mutual amity and recognition with the new Mexican empire.
It is stated that some ladies in the Southern Confederacy are sending their plate to the Treasury as a free offering to their country, "to relieve the pressure on the currency."
The Confederates have captured two Federal transports in the Chesapeake Bay.
The Bohemian has broken up, and is a total loss.
The City of New York, Nova Scotian, and Bavaria have arrived out.
The Judge of the Court of Appeal, at St. John's [i.e., John], has delivered judgment releasing the Chesapeake pirates.
The steamer Donegal has arrived at Havannah with 1000 bales of cotton.