
Foreign And Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer North American we have news from New York to the 3rd inst.

War News.

General M'Clellan has moved his head-quarters to the Virginia side of the Potomac. General Burnside has moved down along the eastern base of the Blue Ridge Mountains and formed a junction with General Siegel. The Federal General Stoneman has occupied Leesburg without opposition. The Confederates are in front of the Federal advance.

General Pleasanton met the Confederates at Phillipmont. After skirmishing they retreated to Union, whence they were subsequently driven by General Pleasanton, who occupied the place. Heavy firing has since been heard, but the result is not known.

The report we gave currency to last week concerning the suppression of General M'Clellan and the assumption by General Halleck of the command of the Department of the West was unfounded. No important changes have been made of late among the highest rank of officers.

The Federal General Mitchell has suffered a severe repulse at Mackay Point and Pocotaligo in an attempt to cut off the railway communication between Charleston and Savannah.

General Curtis reports that the Confederates have been routed in Arkansas.

The Federals have destroyed the extensive steam saltworks erected by the Confederates at St. Joseph's Bay, Florida. Georgia and Florida relied upon these works for the supply of salt for the winter's provision for their troops.

In the extreme south-west some important operations have taken place. Sabine City and Pass, at the mouth of the Sabine River, dividing Louisiana from Texas, have been taken possession of by the Federals. Galveston also, the chief port of Texas, has surrendered to the Union Commander without resistance, and is now occupied by Federal troops. A considerable contraband trade with England and the West Indies has thus been put an end to.

A large naval and military expedition is now being fitted out for Texas. The expedition is to be commanded by General Banks.

The Federal cruisers have captured the British steamers Anglia, Scotia, and Wachuta.

The Confederate steamer Alabama has captured eight more American vessels, and destroyed them all but two, which gave bonds for 86,000 dols., payable to President Davis after the declaration of peace. The Alabama was last seen in lat. 39, long. 69 W., off Cape Delaware, directly in the track of the Californian steamers.

The Confederate States.

Deserters from Richmond report that the steamer Merrimac No. 2 is a complete success.

Governor Vance, of North Carolina, makes a pathetic appeal to the generosity of the people to assist in clothing the Confederate soldiers before the winter sets in. He describes them as already suffering from want of socks, shoes, and blankets. He calls upon the farmers who are tanning hides to supply the shoes, the mothers of North Carolina to knit the socks, and the wealthy to give their parlour carpets for blankets.

Miscellaneous.

In order to remedy the want of small change, the New York municipality has resolved to issue 3,000,000 dols. paper currency in amounts under one dollar.

There has been a series of strikes among the working men of New York for increased wages, in consequence of the alarming and rapid rise in the price of the necessaries of life. The demands of the working men have been acceded to.

Judge Clifford, of Massachusetts, granted a writ of habeas corpus in the case of Mr. W. H. Winder, of Philadelphia, illegally detained in Fort Warren. The Sheriff was denied admittance to the fort to serve the writ.

General Wool, commanding in Baltimore, has arrested several citizens forming a Union committee in Baltimore for the offence of endeavouring to procure signatures among his own officers for his removal from command. The President has ordered the arrested persons to be set at liberty unconditionally.

The Democrats carried the elections in Pennsylvania by 3500 majority. In Ohio the Democratic State ticket has been elected by 8000 majority.

A frightful accident occurred on the Mississippi Central Railroad by the collision of two trains carrying Federal soldiers. Thirty persons were killed, and nearly fifty wounded, many of them mortally.