
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamer Hansa we have received New York journals to the 11th inst.

War News.
President Lincoln has reviewed the army of the Potomac by brigades.
The long-expected attack on Fort Sumter commenced on Tuesday, the 7th inst. In the early part of the day four of the Federal ironclads were engaged. In the afternoon seven took part in the bombardment. They withdrew at five o'clock in the afternoon without having effected their object. The Confederates speak of one man killed and five badly wounded in Fort Sumter. The Federal ironclad Keokuk was injured. The Confederate ironclads took no prominent part in the action.
The negro expedition has evacuated Jacksonville, Florida, and, after burning the town, returned to Port Royal.
The Confederates under Generals Hill and Pettigrew, 10,000 strong, have surrounded Washington, North Carolina, which is occupied by the Federal force under General Foster, estimated at 3000 strong. The Confederates have erected a battery five miles below Washington, commanding the channel between that place and Newbern, thus cutting off the Federal communications with Newbern. General Foster sent to Newbern for reinforcements. A steamer accordingly left Beaufort for Washington, but was fired at by Confederate batteries on shore and compelled to return.
The siege of Vicksburg progresses. General Grant had succeeded in placing a battery of 84-pounder Parrott guns beyond the levée in a position to reach Vicksburg. Another canal, which is to be eight miles in length, has been commenced across the peninsula near Vicksburg, beyond the range of the Confederate batteries.

Admiral Farragut is safe, and commands the Mississippi between Port Hudson and Vicksburg. He is thus able to stop the current of supplies which the Confederates have hitherto received from Texas by way of the Red River.
Admiral Porter's official report of his attempt to reach Yazoo, by way of the Sunflower River, is published. During eight days he worked his way up with his gun-boats only seventy miles. The channels were exceedingly narrow and filled with obstructions. The expedition was finally checked when within 800 yards of the point Admiral Porter desired to reach. He estimates that the Confederates burned 20,000 bales of cotton along his route, beside what he himself burned. Many planters manifested affection for the Federal flag, and the negroes were unanimous in devotion to it.

The Confederates have burned two Federal steamers on the Tennessee River, and captured the Federal steamer Diana on the Atchafayala River, after a sharp engagement, in which the Federal Captain and several gunners were killed.

On the other hand, the Confederate gun-boat Vicksburg broke from her moorings during a storm, and floated down the river until she fell into the hands of Admiral Farragut.
The Confederates have crossed the Rio Grande into Mexico, and captured two Federal officers and three privates (probably "loyal" refugees from Texas). The Mexican authorities, however, having demanded the surrender of the prisoners, they were all released except one, who was reported to have been hung by the Confederates.
It is understood that no further efforts to raise negro regiments will he made in the Free States.

Washington.
The joint Committee of both Houses of Congress on the conduct of the war have presented their report. It censures General M'Clellan's whole military course since his appointment to the command of the army of the Potomac, and points to him as the cause of the failure of the army to take Richmond. General Burnside's plans for dislodging the Confederates at Fredericksburg, subsequently to his defeat in December, are declared to have been thwarted by the interference of The President, who gave ear to prejudicial statements against General Burnside from subordinate officers, and countermanded his orders for an advance.
Washington correspondents agree in stating that the relations between the British and Federal Governments are very much strained by the questions of rights of neutrals at sea at issue between them.
Miscellaneous.
Governor Tod, the Republican Governor of Ohio, has been arrested by order of the grand jury of Fairfield County, Ohio, on a charge of kidnapping Dr. Olds, a prominent Democrat, who was arbitrarily arrested and imprisoned in Fort Lafayette. The Governor was admitted to bail.
A large meeting has been held in New York in aid of the distress among the agricultural and operative classes in Ireland. General M'Clellan, Archbishop Hughes, and Judge Daly addressed the meeting. An appeal to the American people has been issued by the Central Committee for the relief of Irish distress.
The majority of the Pennsylvania Senatorial Investigating Committee report that Mr. Cameron was guilty of offering bribes to secure his election to the United States Senate.
In Connecticut a Republican Governor and Republican State officers have been elected. Three out of the four Republican nominees for Congress have been elected, and the Legislature is also strongly Republican. The Democrats lose one member of Congress.