
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
The news brought by the Damascus and the City of Washington is of interest. The latter vessel called at Cape Race, and brings New York telegrams to the evening of the 1st inst.
The Federals under General Sheridan, in the Shenandoah Valley, remained at Cedar Creek; and the Confederates, who held Newmarket and Fisher's Hill, were said to be in strong force. The Secretary of War had issued an order thanking General Sheridan, his officers, and soldiers for their brilliant victories.
General Grant's army made, on the 27th ult., a reconnaissance in force of the Confederate lines, both on the north and on the south of the James River; and the result was that the Federals resumed their old position. There were, we are told, casualties on both sides, and the Federals took 900 prisoners. The latest despatches state that in this reconnaissance the corps commanded by General Grant in person had 1500 men killed and wounded, while the losses sustained by General Butler's corps, on the north of the James River, were still heavier.
General Beauregard had formally assumed the command of the Confederate army of the south-west. He has issued an address granting an amnesty to absent soldiers returning within thirty days. He says he joins the army, full of hope and confidence in the struggle, to strike a blow which shall bring success to the Southern army and a triumph to the cause of peace and to the country. The Confederates under General Hood were reported to have attacked Decatur, but to have been repulsed, and to have then crossed to the north of the Tennessee River; and later despatches represented General Hood to have been on the 30th ult. at Cypress Creek, north of the Tennessee.
General Price's army was stated to have been routed, dispersed, and driven below Fort Scott by the Federals, who took two generals and several guns, and recaptured many of the prisoners made in Missouri by the Confederates, whose defeated forces were said to be retreating into Arkansas.
The Confederate General Forrest was said to be threatening Columbus and Paducah in Kentucky; and it had been reported in Louisville that Paducah had actually fallen into the hands of the Confederates.
The Times correspondent says:--"A great naval and military expedition to attack Wilmington, fitted out at Fortress Monroe, and consisting of forty ships, including several ironclads and 40,000 troops, has been placed under the command of Admiral Porter."
At a convention of Governors of the Confederate States, held at Augusta, it was resolved to prosecute the war to the last extremity, and that the Confederate Government should be authorised to make levies of negroes for military service. It was asserted that during the winter the Confederates would arm and drill 300,000 negroes.
President Davis has made an important speech at Columbia, South Carolina. It is full of defiance, and calls energetically on the citizens of the South to rally to the support of their cause. He utterly repudiates peace negotiations, unless based on the principle of Southern independence.
The Confederate Congress was to assemble at Richmond on the 7th inst.
President Lincoln has issued a proclamation setting apart the last Thursday in November for a day of thanksgiving and praise to Almighty God for victories over the enemy.
The Republican and Democratic parties were imputing to each other monstrous frauds and forgeries in regard of the soldiers' votes. The Governor of Kentucky had issued a proclamation ordering the Sheriffs to arrest any military officers who might attempt to interfere in the approaching elections in that State; and the Governor of New York had likewise deemed it necessary to forbid military interference at the polling-booths.
The proposed new Constitution for Maryland, which was rejected by the civil votes, has been carried by those of the soldiers, giving an absolute majority of 193 in its favour. The people have, however, appealed against the legality of the soldiers' votes. The Supreme Court at Baltimore had refused an application to compel the Governor of Maryland to throw out the soldiers' vote.
The price of gold had been rising in New York, and on the morning of the 1st inst., the date of the latest telegrams, it was quoted at 137 7/8 per cent premium.