
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
----
AMERICA.

By the arrival of the steamer Norwegian we are in receipt of Boston and New York journals of the 27th ult.

War News.

The army of the Potomac, though for the moment inactive, will not, it is said, under its present commander, be suffered to go into winter quarters.
General Burnside has published a further report, in which he accepts the whole responsibility of the reverse at Fredericksburg and exonerates the President, General Halleck, and Secretary Stanton from all blame. He attributes the defeat to the fog and the delay in building the bridges across the Rappahannock, which gave the Confederates twenty-four hours more to concentrate their forces in their strong positions.

The number of wounded on the side of the Federals is finally given, on the authority of the medical director, to be 7000 instead of 9000, as previously reported.

The committee appointed by the Senate to inquire into the disaster at Fredericksburg have presented their report. They examined Generals Burnside, Hooker, and Franklin, and have presented the evidence without comment. The Generals agreed that the delay in the arrival of the pontoon train was fatal, yet it has been impossible to discover the guilty party, as General Halleck considers his responsibility terminated with giving the order for their despatch immediately after the receipt of the request. General Burnside denied that the troops were demoralised; but General Sumner thought his were, and that the army required rest.

The report that General Foster had been defeated in North Carolina was inaccurate. The General pushed on from Kingston and captured Goldsborough, where he tore up the line of railroad connecting Wilmington with Richmond, and then retired to Newbern. He fought four successful engagements, with a loss of about 500 men. En revanche he captured 500 prisoners and eleven pieces of artillery, with a large number of small arms.

General Banks's expedition has been sighted in the Gulf of Mexico. It is confirmed that he will supersede General Butler in the command of the south-west department.
The Confederates have recaptured Holly Springs, Mississippi. The Federals lost in this affair 200 killed and wounded and 150 prisoners, also 500,000 dols. worth of stores.
President Davis has issued a proclamation retaliatory upon Butler. He and all his officers are to be hung if taken, but their soldiers are to be paroled. Negroes taken in arms and their officers are also to be hung.

A large steamer, bringing a heavy stock of shoes, blankets, and cloth for the Confederate Government, got safely into Charleston Harbour recently.

General Bonham has been appointed Confederate Governor South Carolina, in place of General Gregg, killed.

Washington.

A full account of the interview between the President and the caucus of Republican senators, who passed a vote of want of confidence in a part of the President's Cabinet, has been published. The President heard what the senators had to say, and then respectfully declined to accede to their request, on the ground that what the country needed was military success, and that his Cabinet Ministers, "even were they angels," could not guarantee that. The resolution was principally levelled at Mr. Seward, on account of his conservation in home politics and his irritating attitude in the management of foreign affairs. The latter ground was urged by Senator Sumner, the chairman of the Senate's Committee on Foreign Affairs. In consequence of the refusal of the President to accept the resignations of Messrs. Seward and Chase, those gentleman continue to hold office. This is the first attempt in the course of American Constitutional history to make the personnel of the Administration dependent on Congress. It has failed in the present instance.

The President hesitates to sign the bill admitting Western Virginia as a separate State.
The efforts of the representatives of the Border State men to induce the President to cancel his proclamation of the 22nd of September have been futile, but he thinks favourably of their petition that Tennessee and portions of Eastern Virginia, where manifestations of loyalty have been made, be excepted from its operation.

Congress, by a vote of 77 against 33, has given leave to report a bill appropriating 20,000,000 dols. to Missouri to aid her in emancipating her slaves.

A bill embodying Secretary Chase's proposals for raising 300,000,000 dols. for the service of the current year, and 600,000, 000 dols. for the service of the next fiscal year, has been introduced into the House of Representatives.

Miscellaneous.

Mrs. Harriet Beecher Stowe has published in the current number of the Atlantic Monthly a reply to the appeal made to the women of America by the women of Britain on the subject of slavery ten years ago. She says that those who felt the weight of that appeal have had hitherto no leisure to reply to it:--

All their time and energies were already absorbed in direct efforts to remove the great evil concerning which the minds of their English sisters had been newly aroused, and their only answer was the silent continuance of these efforts. The time has come, however, when such an astonishing page has been turned in the anti-slavery history of America that the women of our country, feeling that the great anti-slavery work to which their English sisters exhorted them is almost done, may properly and naturally feel moved to reply to their appeal, and lay before them the history of what has occurred since the receipt of their affectionate and Christian address. After giving her version of the anti-slavery contest in the United States during the past ten years, and charging English public opinion with a leaning in favour of the establishment of a slaveholding Confederacy, she apostrophises the women of England thus:--

And now, sisters of England, think it not strange, if we bring back the words of your letter, not in bitterness but in deepest sadness, and lay them at your door. We say to you,--Sisters, you have spoken well; we have heard you; we have heeded; we have striven in the cause, even unto death. We have sealed our devotion by desolate hearth and darkened homestead--by the blood of sons, husbands, and brothers. In many of our dwellings the very light of our lives has gone out, and yet we accept the life-long darkness as our own part in this great and awful expiation, by which the bonds of wickedness shall be loosed, and abiding peace established on the foundation of righteousness. Sisters, what have you done, and what do you mean to do? In view of the decline of the noble anti-slavery fire in England--in view of all the facts and admissions recited from your own papers--we beg leave, in solemn sadness, to return to you your own words. The reply is signed by Mrs. Stowe "in behalf of many thousands of American women."

Orders for the supply of the French army in Mexico continue to be executed in New York. The Mexican Minister has protested, but Mr. Seward declines to interfere.

Thirty-nine out of the 300 Sioux Indians imprisoned at Dakoa, Minnesota, were to be hung on the 27th for their complicity with the massacre of the whites, and fears are entertained that the whites will "lynch" the rest. The colonel commanding the post has invoked the aid of the law-abiding portion of the citizens.

California.
The British steamer Scotland has arrived at San Francisco from Hong-Kong, Shanghai, and Kanagawa. The Scotland is the pioneer of a new British line of steamers which are to make a monthly trip between San Francisco, Japan, and China. The charge for freight is 12 dols. a ton, and for passengers 250 dols. each. The Scotland brought 700 tons of freight from China, and 300 tons from Japan, principally teas.