
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
UNITED STATES.
The assassination trials are over, and the sentences partly carried out. Payne, Harrold, Atzerott, and Mrs. Surratt were hanged on the 7th inst. The Judge of the Supreme Court had previously served a writ of habeas corpus on General Hancock, in Mrs. Surratt's case, which, by President Johnson's order, was not obeyed. It is stated that Payne, previous to his execution, exonerated Mrs. Suratt, and that another person had subscribed to an affidavit impeaching the testimony of an important witness against her. Dr. Mudd, Arnold, and O'Laughlin are to be imprisoned, with hard labour, for life; and Spangler, the stage carpenter, is to be imprisoned, with hard labour, for six years.
In Philadelphia the Provost Marshal having, by order from Washington, surrendered a prisoner named Cozzens to the Sheriff, Judge Thompson has since released him, declaring that the President's power to suspend the habeas corpus conferred by Congress terminated with the war.
President Johnson's health is somewhat improved, but he is still unable to receive visitors. The health of Mr. F. W Seward continues to improve.
Independence Day, the 4th of July, was celebrated with more than usual demonstrations of loyalty.
President Johnson has issued a proclamation appointing Benjamin F. Perry Provisional Governor of South Carolina. All the seceded States, except Florida, have now either provisional or elected local governments. The details of reconstruction, however, are much more copious than interesting.
General Grant authorises the statement that all the white volunteer troops of the army would be mustered out of service at the earliest possible day. It was probable that, by the middle of August, there would not be 10,000 remaining in the whole of General Meade's military division of the Atlanta.
Advices from the west report the capture of several desperate guerrillas and murderers.
The military authorities of Richmond had taken precautionary measures against an apprehended negro insurrection.
The Government are making arrangements to send to Atalanta a sufficient quantity of supplies to relieve the necessities of the people in that district, who for some time past had been reduced to the last extremities of famine.
A committee of delegates, presenting the coloured population of Virginia, was to meet in Alexandria on the 2nd of August, to consider the condition and prospects of the race.
The number of applicants to the President for pardon average between 200 and 300 a day. Papers were issued one day granting pardon to 180, mostly North Carolinians.
The States of Wisconsin and Iowa have been visited by terrible tornadoes. The village of Virogna, Vernon County, Wisconsin, a place of about 1200 inhabitants, was nearly destroyed. Seventeen persons were killed and more than a hundred badly injured. The loss of property was very great. In Iowa the crops were badly damaged, railroads and bridges destroyed, and serious damage done in several counties. Heavy rains succeeding had caused disastrous floods.
Large numbers of Federal troops were landing along the Texas coast and the mouth of the Rio Grande. Six thousand troops, mostly coloured, had arrived at Brazos. A detachment had been sent up the river, and occupied Eagle Pass.
The Herald states that the Government had received official information that Spain would surrender the Stonewall to the United States.