
Foreign and Colonial Intelligence


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL INTELLIGENCE.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamer Persia we have received New York journals to the 6th inst.

War News.
At six o'clock on Saturday evening, May 2, General Stonewall Jackson, with his whole corps of 40,000 men, threw himself impetuously on the extreme right of the Federals, formed by Major-General Howard's corps. That corps consisted chiefly of German troops. Without waiting for a single volley from the Confederates, this corps abandoned their position behind their breastworks and fled, panic-stricken, towards head-quarters. To retrieve the day General Hooker sent his own old army corps, then commanded by General Berry. This corps succeeded in checking the advance of the theretofore victorious assailants, and drove them back into the intrenched position lately vacated by the German troops. The Confederates captured twelve pieces of cannon. The Federals lost General Berry, and the Confederates are reported to have lost General A. P. Hill in the engagement with General Berry's corps.
On the next day, Sunday, General Jackson continued his attack. He commenced the onslaught at 5.30 a.m., and the battle raged until 11.30. At the end of that time the Confederates had gained about a mile and a half of ground, and had driven General Hooker from Chancellorsville, which had been his head-quarters. A correspondent of a New York newspaper writes of this day's fight in front of Chancellorsville as follows:--
The engagement had lasted six hours, but had been the most terrific of the war. Our artillery had literally slaughtered the enemy, and many of the companies had lost heavily in men themselves, but the guns were all saved. The enemy has gained some ground, it is true, but at the sacrifice of the flower of his force, five of his seven divisions having been cut to pieces in the effort, and over 2000 of them having fallen into our hands.
In the afternoon several attempts were made to force the Federal lines, but they were repulsed by the Federal artillery. General Hooker was busy throughout Sunday night and Monday intrenching his present position, and was confident of his ability to hold it against the enemy. Monday was a very quiet day throughout the lines.
On Sunday there was fighting in front of the batteries which crowned the heights above Fredericksburg. After six hours' fighting General Sedgwick, by a brilliant charge, captured the Confederate guns, including the celebrated Washington Artillery Company, which had figured in every engagement on the Potomac and the Rappahannock.

On Monday the Confederates above Fredericksburg were reinforced by General Longstreet's column, which had just arrived from Suffolk. This force enabled the Confederates to regain the positions they had lost the day previous and to drive General Sedgwick across the river. This hazardous operation was accomplished between midnight and two o'clock on Tuesday morning. The Confederates raked the bridges, creating much confusion and causing considerable loss of life. They also pressed the Federal rear when they discovered he was retreating, and harassed it incessantly. With the remainder of his corps he marched off to United States' Ford to join the main army under General Hooker.

The Federals crossed the Nansemond River at Suffolk, and again four miles below that place. They encountered the Confederates and captured eight guns.
General Banks has occupied Opelousas and Washington, Louisiana. The Federal attack on Grand Gulf failed.

Miscellaneous.
Mr. Vallandingham, the leader of the Northern Peace party, has been arrested at his residence in Dayton, Ohio, by a detachment of soldiers, who battered down the doors of his house to reach his room. His friends rang the town fire-bell, collected a mob, and endeavoured to rescue him, but were unable to prevent his being carried prisoner to Cincinnati. General Burnside is said to have ordered his arrest for making seditious speeches in Ohio.
Mr. Redgate, one of the owners of the cargo of the Peterhoff, has applied to the Court for permission to testify on his own account. The Court refused the application, on the ground that Mr. Redgate, being a citizen of Texas at the time of the Secession, must be regarded as an alien enemy. The examination of the cargo continues.

California.
On the 27th ult. the steamer Ada Hancock, while plying in the harbour of San Pedro, in the southern part of this State, exploded her boiler, killing forty out of sixty passengers, and wounding the rest, save seven. Among the killed is Hiram Kimball, the Mormon missionary.