
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS AMERICA.
The Africa brings New York journals of the 12th ult. The general tenor of the advices is again favourable to the Federals. The steady perseverance and more lasting qualities of the North have already nearly cleared Kentucky of the Secessionists, carried the war into Western Tennessee, and seized on two more points on the coast of North Carolina.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.

News has been received from the Burnside expedition to the coast of North Carolina. The telegrams are very meagre, but we gather from them that on the 5th ult. General Burnside sailed from Hatteras Inlet for Roanoke Island, which lies between Albemarle and Pamlico Sounds. This island had been carefully fortified by the Confederates, and they had had warning of the point of attack. The island was captured after three days' fighting. The loss was heavy on both sides. The Confederate flotilla of gun-boats was dispersed; three were sunk and two captured. On the 9th ult. the expedition attacked Elizabeth City, which the inhabitants evacuated. It was completely burnt, but whether by the inhabitants or the shells from the Federal fleet is not known. The Federals had occupied the site of the burnt city, and were advancing on Edentown. These two towns are situated on the north of Albemarle Sound.

In Tennessee, Fort Donnelson has not yet been attacked. The Memphis and Ohio Railroad bridge, fifteen miles above Fort Henry, has been taken possession of by the Federal troops. This cuts off the connection between Memphis and Nashville. Federal gun-boats have ascended the Tennessee River as high as Florence, Alabama, and encountered no opposition. General Smith on the west, and General Grant on the east, of that river were pursuing the retreating Confederates. The report that the gravity of the circumstances had drawn General Beauregard from Manassas to Nashville, leaving General Johnstone in command at the former position, has been confirmed.

General Thomas, in command of the Federal forces in southeastern Kentucky, had advanced no farther south than Monticello, the state of the roads hindering a more speedy progress. From the papers found in the deserted camp of the Confederates, on the Cumberland, it is evident by the admission of their own military and civil leaders that in Eastern Tennessee the mass of the people are loyal to the Union, and wait with impatience the arrival of the Union armies.

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.

The term of the twelve months' volunteers from the Gulf States is now expiring, and in many of the best regiments a large majority decline to re-enlist for the war.

The Confederate Government had declined to admit Commissioners Fish and Ames into the Southern States.

THE ARREST OF GENERAL STONE.

This General, till lately in command of the army of the Upper Potomac, was arrested at Washington on the 9th, and sent to Fort Lafayette on the following serious charges:—

1. For misbehaviour at the battle of Ball's Bluff.

2. For holding correspondence with the enemy before and since the battle of Ball's Bluff, and receiving visits from rebel officers in his camp.

3. For treacherously suffering the enemy to build a fort, or strong work, since the battle of Ball's Bluff, under his guns, without molestation.

4. For a treacherous design to expose his force to capture and destruction by the enemy under pretence of orders for a movement from the Commanding General which had not been given.

The news of this arrest caused the greatest consternation among the officers of the regular army, to which General Stone belonged.

THE ADMINISTRATION.

The correspondence between Mr. Lincoln and Mr. Cameron, the late Secretary for War, on the occasion of his retirement, has been published. The correspondence is of a highly friendly and even affectionate character, and is dated Jan. 11. Mr. Lincoln speaks of the Czar of Russia as the "great Sovereign whose personal and hereditary friendship for the United States so much endears him to Americans."

The correspondence between Secretary Seward and Mr. Dayton, United States' Minister to Paris, concerning the admission of American citizens to the Tuileries has been published. Mr. Seward thinks that Mr. Dayton ought to furnish the profession or occupation of the applicants but not their "social position," as distinctions of social position are unknown in America. The letter concludes in a highly-patriotic strain:—

"It is peculiarly uncomfortable at the present moment, to find American citizens leaving their country a prey to faction and civil war, disturbing the Court of a friendly Power, and embarrassing our representative there with questions of personal interest and pretension. Let the Emperor and Empress of France receive when they will, and as many or few as they will, and let all others, as well as those who are admitted, turn their attention to the question how they can serve their country abroad; and, if they can find no better way to do it than by making their attendance in the saloons of the Tuileries, let them return home to a "country that now, for the first time, and not for a long time, needs the active efforts of every one of its loyal children to save itself from destruction. Finally, above all things, have no question with the Government of Fiance on this subject. Rather introduce nobody, however justly distinguished, then let a question of fashion or ceremony appear in the records of the important period in which we are acting for the highest interests of our country and of humanity."
CONGRESS.

The House Treasury Note Bill is now before the Senate's Finance Committee. Among the amendments proposed is one making it obligatory to pay the interest of the national debt in coin. In the meantime a bill authorising the Secretary of the Treasury to issue 10,000,000 dols. in Treasury notes has been hurried through both Houses.

Mr. Sumner offered a series of resolutions declaring that the revolted States have committed felo de se, and that their relations as members of the United States no longer exist; that their allegiance has been severed, and the Federal Government owes no obligation to any pretended State Government usurping a certain territory; that individuals occupying such territory owe allegiance to the General Government only, and the General Government to the individuals; there fore, persona heretofore held as slaves under local laws, now of no effect, may look henceforth to the General Government for protection as individuals. These resolutions were only laid aside by a vote of 21 against 15.

The Senate has passed the appropriations for fortifying the lake shores and the Northern frontier.

MISCELLANEOUS.

The Emperor Napoleon's speech to the Corps Législatif was well received in New York, and affected the stock market favourably.

The New York journals of the 12th ult. publish Earl Russell's despatch on the subject of maritime rights in full, and unaccompanied by comment. The despatch was only received at a late hour on the previous night.

General Stanton, the Secretary of War, was labouring under severe indisposition.

General Fremont was to receive an important command, having disproved, to the satisfaction of the Secretary of War, the charges of corruption alleged against him.

The Maine Senate has followed the example of the Legislature of Michigan and passed resolutions in favour of confiscating, liberating, and arming the slaves, if it shall be a military necessity, by a vote of 24 against 4.