
Foreign and Colonial News


FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the City of Washington we are in receipt of telegrams from New York to the 22nd ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS BY SEA AND LAND.

The Merrimac has not made her reappearance in Hampton Roads, where the Monitor (whose late commander, Lieut. Worden, is now totally blind with small hopes of recovering his sight) patiently awaits her advent.

General Burnside has captured Newbern, on the coast of North Carolina. He reports as follows:—

By this victory we have captured eight batteries, containing forty-six heavy guns; three batteries of light artillery, making in all sixty-four guns; two steam-boats, a large quantity of ammunition, rosin, turpentine, and cotton, and over 200 prisoners. The Federal loss will amount to ninety-one killed and 466 wounded, many of them mortally. The rebel loss was severe, but not so great as the Federal loss, they being effectually covered by their works.

The report that Mr. Yancey had been captured in a vessel trying to run the blockade lacks confirmation.

On land the Confederates have taken up a line of defence south of the Rappahannock, with their centre resting on Gordonsville, the junction of the Virginia Central and Virginia and Tennessee Railroads. Although little or no news concerning pending operations transpires, it is certain that a large portion of the Federal army is embarking at Alexandria for the probable purpose of advancing on Richmond by way of Fortress Monroe and James River. General M'Clellan has issued a florid address to his soldiers, promising to take them to a field of action where a decisive battle can be fought.

General Banks's corps-d'armée has occupied Strasburg without opposition.

From General Buell's army in Tennessee there is no news of importance. A correspondent of a New York journal writes thus of the attitude of the citizens of Nashville:—

The appearance of Nashville reminds one vividly of the towns and cities in Northern Italy after the triumph of the Austrians over the revolution of 1848. Most of the stores continue closed. But few male and fewer female inhabitants are visible upon the streets; victorious soldiery alone enliven them. Half the private residences are deserted and add further gloom to the aspect by their closed doors and window-shutters and gravelike stillness. Altogether, Nashville looks much more like a conquered than a liberated city.

The Governors of Mississippi and Louisiana have issued calls for 15,000 more troops, whom General Beauregard will accept at Jackson in the former State.

Island No.10 in the channel of the Mississippi has been the scene of a hot engagement between the defending Confederates and the besieging Federals. Commencing the bombardment on the 17th, after five days' bombardment by the Federals under Commodore Foote, the assailants report that no decisive result has been obtained, although all the guns on the upper battery on the Kentucky side of the river have been silenced, and one gun on the island dismounted.

According to the official report of General Pope the success of the Federal arms at New Madrid is greater than was at first reported. All the artillery, several thousands of smallarms, ammunition, cartridge-boxes, three hundred mules, several thousand tents, and 1,000,000 dollars' worth of other property fell into his hands. The men escaped during a heavy thunderstorm. They left behind them even their knapsacks and the baggage of their officers. The Federal loss was about fifty wounded. New Madrid was the last place held in Missouri by the Confederates.

MISCELLANEOUS.

The proceedings of Congress have not been important. The Judiciary Committee of the Senate report favourably on the resolution offering the Senate's co-operation with President Lincoln's offer of emancipation by purchase to the slaveowners of the Border States.

Mr. Wendell Phillips, the Abolitionist leader, has delivered a lecture on slavery and the war in the hall of the Smithsonian Institute, Washington. The President was not present; but many members of Congress were. He was received on the floor of the Senate, being introduced there by Senator Sumner; and he afterwards addressed a Massachusetts regiment stationed at Alexandria.
The New York merchants are getting up a subscription for a testimonial to Captain Ericsson, the architect of the steam-battery Monitor. A letter he has written to Mr. Epes Sargent, of Boston, illustrates the moral which the Federals are drawing from the achievements of the Monitor:—

My dear Sargent,—I accept with great pleasure your congratulations, and assure you that every exertion will be made on my part to furnish the nation with war vessels that will enable us to defy Europe. Give me only the requisite means, and in a very short time we can say to those Powers now bent on destroying Republican freedom, leave the Gulf of Mexico with your frail craft or perish! I have all my life asserted that mechanical science will put an end to the power of England over the seas. The ocean is nature's highway between the nations. It should be free; and surely nature's laws, when properly applied, will make it so. Yours very truly, J. Ericsson.