
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Cunard steamer Africa we are in receipt of New York journals to the 26th ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS ON SEA AND LAND.
General Burnside has entered upon more of the coast of North Carolina. Fort Macon and the town of Beaufort have been occupied by the Federals. The town was evacuated before the Federals approached. One account states that the steamer Nashville, which was lately in Southampton harbour, was burnt to prevent it from falling into the hands of the invaders; another that it was only slightly injured, and in this state was captured.

Commodore Dupont is active on the eastern coast of Florida. He has captured Fort Marion, at St. Augustine, which was surrendered without a struggle. The inhabitants of St. Augustine hoisted the Federal flag immediately the place was evacuated by the Confederate officers. The Commodore issued a proclamation very reassuring to the well-disposed portion of the inhabitants.

Owing to the censorship nothing is said of General M'Clellan's movements by the American press. The Times special correspondent reports that the General is assembling an army at and around Fortress Monroe of at least 85,000 of the best infantry which the Federals have in the field, with upwards of 100 guns and 4000 cavalry. The navigation of the Potomac being no longer impeded by Confederate batteries, the movement of this force from Alexandria goes on with rapidity.

General Shields's division of General Banks's corps-d'armée has been attacked by the Confederate General Jackson at Winchester, the chief town of Frederick County, Virginia. The assailants numbered 15,000, the attacked 9000. The action lasted eight hours, and terminated in the defeat of the Confederates, with a loss of about 600 men. In their flight the Confederates threw away their muskets, of which more than 1000 have been found, and left two guns, caissons, and several hundred prisoners, in the enemy's hands. On the following day the retreating army was pursued by General Banks, who telegraphs as follows:—

March 25. Five miles beyond Strasburg.

The enemy are still in retreat, and our forces in hot pursuit. They have abandoned waggons along the road filled with dead and dying. The houses on the route are found crowded with the wounded and dead. The dwellings in the towns adjacent to the battle-field of Sunday are also found filled with wounded. The inhabitants aided the rebel soldiers in carrying off their wounded during the day, and in burying them quickly as soon as dead. Our artillery makes terrible havoc among the enemy in their flight, and the rout bids fair to be one of the most dreadful of the war.

Of the campaign in Tennessee we have nothing new. The Confederates are now said to have concentrated an army at Corinth, in Mississippi. The Federal troops still mostly remain on board their transports.

Island No. 10 holds out with obstinacy, the firing continuing slowly by day and night, at intervals of half an hour.

The Confederates obtained a decided victory at Fort Craig, New Mexico, on the 21st of February. The Federal loss was 62 killed and 142 wounded. They also lost six guns and destroyed a large amount of property on abandoning Albuquerque.

CONGRESS.

The Tax Bill is still in Committee undergoing alterations.

The Senate has been debating the bill for the compensated abolition of slavery in the district of Columbia. The opposition to the measure takes the indirect form of advocating the colonisation in tropical lands of the liberated slaves. An amendment of this nature was thrown out only by the casting vote of the Speaker, Vice-President Hamlin, the division having resulted in a tie—19 against 19.

MISCELLANEOUS.

Mr. Yancey has not been captured, nor have three journals been suppressed by the War Department for the improper publication of military news, as has been reported. On the other hand, the rumour of the death of the Confederate General Ben M'Culloch, at the battle of Sugar Creek, in Arkansas, is confirmed, as is that which announced that Commodore Buchanan, the Commander of the Merrimac, was seriously wounded. He has since died, after having suffered amputation of the leg.

The import trade at New York is rapidly reviving, in spite of the heavy tariff and other adverse circumstances.

A PRO-SLAVERY RIOT IN CINCINNATI.

Mr. Wendell Phillips, the Abolitionist leader, attempted (Monday, March 24) to deliver a lecture at the Opera House in Cincinnati, the chief city of the Free State of Ohio. The subsequent proceedings are thus described in the New York journals:—

Persons in the galleries then hissed, yelled, and threw eggs and stones at him, some hitting him. The hissing was kept up some time. Finally, he made himself heard, and proceeded until something again objectionable was said, and again eggs were thrown, hitting him. He persevered, and a third time was heard, and a third time stoned and egged. The crowd now moved down stairs, crying "Put him out!" Tar and feather him!" and giving groans for the "nigger Wendell Phillips." They proceeded down the middle aisle towards a stage, and were met by Phillips's friends. Here a fight ensued amidst the greatest confusion, ladies screaming and crying, jumping on chairs, and falling in all directions. During the fight Phillips was taken off the stage by his friends. The audience then moved out. It is now ten o'clock, and the streets in the vicinity of the Opera House are crowded with excited people. They are unable to find Phillips.
...
During the last winter icebergs 200ft. in height were seen off the coast of Maine, in the United States.