
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Etna we have news from New York to the 17th inst.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS BY SEA AND LAND.

Norfolk, the naval depôt of the Confederates, has surrendered, the navy-yard, dry dock, machinery, and vessels there having all been previously destroyed. On the 10th inst. General Wool landed with 5000 men at Willoughby Point and marched on Norfolk. A delegation of citizens met him near Norfolk and surrendered the city. Brigadier-General Viele was appointed Military Governor, and issued a proclamation assuring the citizens that their rights of property should be respected. The citizens are as disaffected to the Federal Government as those of New Orleans. They greeted the Federal troops with cheers for the Confederate, and groans for the Federal, President.

The Confederate General Huger withdrew with the garrison to reinforce General Johnson. On the 11th the Confederates blew up the celebrated Merrimac, the late reconnaissance of Federal vessels having convinced them of the hopelessness of resistance, and the Merrimac drawing too much water to allow her to escape up any of the rivers.

The vanguard of the main army of General M'Clellan has advanced beyond New Kent Courthouse, within twenty-two miles of Richmond. The inhabitants have, in nearly every instance, fled before the advance of the invaders. General M'Clellan thinks that the enemy will make a stand at Bottom Bridge, fifteen miles from Richmond, at the head waters of the Chickahominy River. He admits that "the enemy's retreat has been most admirably accomplished, carrying almost everything with them in the shape of forage and provisions, the waggon-trains in the daytime and their troops at night." The report that the main body of the Confederates had retreated to the south side of the James River is untrue.

Released prisoners coming from Richmond on the 12th reported that they passed the Federal steamers Monitor, Nangatuck, and Galena beyond City Point, steaming towards Richmond. The Confederate steamers Jamestown and Yorktown were at Rocketts, about a mile from Richmond.

The Federal General Hunter, commanding the Military Department of Georgia, Florida, and South Carolina, has issued a proclamation declaring martial law in those States; and, as martial law and slavery are incompatible, all slaves in Georgia, Florida, and South Carolina are declared for ever free.

A coloured pilot and crew had arrived at Port Royal with a steamer of eight guns which the Confederates had sent from Charleston to Fort Ripley. The coloured crew seized the steamer and took her to the Federals at Port Royal.

A despatch from Corinth states that the Confederates admit that Pensacola has surrendered to the Federals.

From New Orleans we learn that the Mayor and Aldermen had been sent to prison for refusing to take the oath of allegiance. The greatest dearth of provisions prevailed, and General Butler occupied the St. Charles Hotel as his head-quarters. He sent a proclamation to the newspaper offices for publication, but they refused to print it. A Federal guard was sent to each office, and Northern printers were procured, by whom the proclamation was set up and published.

The Southern papers state that the Federal squadron had arrived off Fort Morgan, to attack Mobile.

General Beauregard has obtained a slight advantage at Farmington, a place five miles east of Corinth. The brigade of the Federal General Pope was attacked on the banks of a creek near Farmington. After an engagement of five hours the Federal forces were driven across the creek with great loss. Beauregard continues to receive reinforcements.The Federals estimate the number of his force at 125,000 at the least.
There has been another naval engagement on the Mississippi. Captain Davis reports from above Fort Pillow that on the 10th inst. eight Confederate iron-clad gun-boats attacked the Federal flotilla under Commodore Foote. The action lasted one hour. Two of the Confederate gun-boats were blown up and one sunk, when the rest retired under the guns of the fort. One Federal gun-boat was sunk, and one disabled.

Another iron-clad steamer, christened the Ironsides, had been launched at Philadelphia.

WASHINGTON.

President Lincoln had issued a proclamation to the effect that the blockade of New Orleans, Beaufort, and Port Royal should cease from June 1 on the following conditions:—

Vessels clearing from foreign ports destined for New Orleans, Beaufort, or Port Royal must obtain licences from American Consuls abroad, which will be granted upon satisfactory evidence that such vessels will convey no person, property, or information contraband of war, either to or from the above port.

>These licences must be exhibited on arrival to the collectors at the above ports.

When cleared outwards from the above ports such vessels must have the collector's clearance, showing that the above conditions have not been violated.

The violation of these conditions will involve the forfeiture and condemnation of vessel and cargo, and exclusion from entering the United States during the war.

Congress continues firm in its anti-slavery course. The House of Representatives had passed a bill abolishing slavery in the territories of the United States by a vote of 85 against 50. This bill, if passed into law, will render nugatory the Dred Scott decision. The Senate has voted an appropriation for the education of coloured children in the district of Columbia, for whom no public schools of any kind have hitherto been provided. The Democratic members of Congress have assembled and passed resolutions condemning the policy of the recent measures of emancipation and liberality towards the oppressed race.

Mr. Edward Stanley, of San Francisco, but a native of North Carolina, has been appointed Military Governor of that State. Mr. Stanley is one of. those few Southerners who adhered to the Republican party from its birth.

MISCELLANEOUS.

President Davis had recommended the observance of a solemn fast and humiliation on the 16th day of this month.

A vessel had arrived at New York with 1943 bales of cotton from Port Royal.

Gold was at 3½ prem.