
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the steamers Anglo-Saxon and Great Eastern we have news from New York to the 1st inst.
BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.
General M'Clellan was no nearer to Richmond at last advices than he was a week previous. On the 27th his forces captured Hanover Courthouse, where the Confederates suffered a loss of 1000 men. The Federal casualties were estimated at 370 killed, wounded, and missing. By the burning of a bridge across a creek on the line of the Richmond, Fredericksburg, and Potomac Railroad, communication is cut off between Richmond and the army of General Jackson.

The Federal fleet of gun-boats still remains about fifteen miles below Richmond.

General M'Dowell has crossed the Rappahannock, and advanced six miles beyond Fredericksburg. The Confederates retreated, destroying the bridges behind them.

The most important event of the week in Virginia is the retreat, reinforcement, and second advance of General Banks. After falling back upon Winchester, as previously reported, General Banks was attacked, at daybreak on the 25th ult,, by a corps-d'armée of 15,000 men under Generals Ewell and Johnstone, his own force consisting of only 4000 men, to which number it had been reduced by reinforcing General M'Dowell. The Federals retreated through Martinsburg to Williamsburg, and crossed the Potomac at Williamsport into Maryland. The Confederates kept up an active pursuit along the route. At Winchester the Federals were fired upon by the women armed with pistols. Complaints of the cruelties practised by the Confederates on the sick and wounded of the retreating force are renewed. General Banks admits his loss was large, but cannot state the exact amount. The loss of military stores, including fifty waggon-trains, is heavy.

General Banks's command was immediately reinforced, and be forthwith advanced again into Virginia. He re-entered Front Royal on the 30th and drove out the enemy, capturing many prisoners and much materiel. He advanced beyond Martinsburg the next day.

The Confederates evacuated Corinth on the 29th. They retreated to Grand Junction, and thence southward. They destroyed an immense amount of public and private property, stores, provisions, waggons, tents, &c. For miles out of the town the roads were filled with arms, haversacks, &c., thrown away by his fleeing troops. A large number, of prisoners and deserters were captured. General Halleck adds:—

General Beauregard evidently distrusts his army or he would have defended so strong a position. His troops are generally much discouraged and demoralised. In all their engagements for the last few days their resistance has been slight.

The Federal fleet had captured Natchez, on the Mississippi. No resistance was offered.

Little Rock, the capital of Arkansas, had been occupied by the Federals.

THE OCCUPIED TERRITORY.

Nowhere is there any revival of Union sentiment worth speaking of. In New Orleans General Butler continues to govern with military rigour. Several papers had been suppressed. All women who insulted the Federal officers were to be imprisoned in the Calaboose as prostitutes. The circulation of Confederate notes was forbidden. Six persons had been condemned to be shot for violating their parole. General Butler, having seized 100,000 dollars at the Dutch Consulate—said on the one hand to belong to Messrs. Hope Brothers, of Amsterdam, and on the other to a bank in New Orleans—the foreign Consuls had unanimously protested against the act. General Butler stands by his seizure. Some British subjects charged with sending arms to Beauregard had been imprisoned. The British Consul had opened a correspondence with General Butler concerning their release.

Troubles had broken out in Western Tennessee. Norfolk continued contumacious, although about 1500 citizens had taken the oath of allegiance. The garrison had fallen out with the negroes and killed several of them.

As the invading forces advance into Virginia they admit the residents become more bitterly hostile.

At Norfolk the Federal General Viele, by special invitation of the officers, paid a visit to the British war-steamer Rinaldo. He was received with the honours of a salute and the manning of the yards. The American ensign was displayed at the fore.

CONGRESS.

Mr. Dawes, in a speech in Congress, stated that the national debt at that moment amounted to 481,000,000 dol.

THE NORTHERN STATES.

The excitement caused by the retreat of General Banks, and the real or supposed peril of Washington, was equal to that which ensued on the fall of Fort Sumter. The President having called for 50,000 more volunteers, about 250,000 were forthwith offered. The aristocratic 7th Regiment of New York left the city for Washington at a few hours' notice, numbering 800. Governor Andrew, of Massachusetts, who had previously warned President Lincoln that Massachusetts could only furnish a few more troops unless the emancipation policy was pursued, changed his tone, and called on the people of his State to save the capital from "the wily and barbarous horde of traitors." In Baltimore the Secessionists were maltreated by the Unionists.

Mr. Hamilton E. Towle, an American civil engineer, had libelled the Great Eastern for salvage. He was a passenger during her attempted voyage to New York in September, 1861. He claims that by mesas of his steering-apparatus the vessel was brought safely into port. The libellant claims 100,000 dollars.

General Prim arrived in New York, on the 31st ult., in the Spanish frigate Don Antonio Ulloa.

The tide of American tourists to Europe is again setting in with great strength. Every steamer that leaves New York or Boston is crowded with passengers.

CALIFORNIA.

Nine hundred passengers sailed from San Francisco for Oregon and British Columbia in two steamers in the week ending the 26th ult.