
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the Hibernian we have telegrams from New York to the 9th instant.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.

Another great battle had been fought in front of Richmond, in which the Confederates obtained a momentary success, to be succeeded by another repulse. On Saturday, the 31st ult., after a terrific thunder-storm, the Confederates made an attack on General Casey's division, which was driven from the field, with the loss of his guns, baggage-waggons, and military stores. Other divisions of the Federal army arrived and drove back the enemy at the point of the bayonet. The next morning (Sunday) the Confederates attempted to renew the conflict, but were everywhere repulsed. General Casey's position was not only regained, but a further advance made. Among the prisoners taken by the Federals were General Pettigrew and Colonel Loring. During the engagement Professor Lowe, in his balloon, was hovering above the scene and communicating information by telegraph over the wires as to the movements of the Confederates. The reports of the Federal loss vary from 3800 to 7000. General Joseph Johnstone is reported to have been seriously wounded, leaving the command of the Confederates to General Gustavus Smith.
General Fremont has occupied Harrisonburg, in the valley of the Shenandoah. Beyond Harrisonburg he came upon General Jackson, fell into an ambuscade, and suffered heavy loss. General Jackson was expected to make a stand at Fort Republic.

General Halleck reports from his head-quarters near Corinth that General Pope, with 40,000 men, was nine miles south of Corinth, pushing the enemy hard. The latter had taken 10,000 prisoners and deserters and 15,000 stand of arms. The retreating force were throwing away their arms. Colonel Elliot had succeeded in reaching the Mobile and Ohio Railroad at Burnsville, where they destroyed the track, burned up the dépôt and locomotives and a train of twenty-six cars loaded with supplies of every kind, destroyed 10,000 stand of arms, and much other material of war.

The Confederates had evacuated Fort Wright. A naval engagement had taken place on the Mississippi, near Memphis, resulting in the destruction of the Confederate fleet. All the Confederate vessels were destroyed but one. Memphis surrendered immediately afterwards.

Southern papers state that the Federal forces, 2000 strong, had landed on James Island, opposite Charleston, under cover of a gun-boat, and that some fighting had occurred, in which the Federals were repulsed.

WASHINGTON.

The Federal Navy Department had ordered the construction of fifteen more gun-boats.

The Senate had passed the Tax Bill. Cotton had been taxed at half a cent per pound.

The bill punishing polygamy in Utah passed the Senate by 37 to 2 votes. The bill recognising the independence of Hayti and Liberia, and providing for diplomatic relations with those countries, was passed by the House by a vote of 86 against 37.

The Secretary of the Treasury, in a message sent to the Congress, states that the total debt of the Government on the 29th of May was 491,415,894 dols., and that the interest paid averaged only 4·35 per cent.

MISCELLANEOUS.

General Dix, commanding at Fortress Monroe, had relaxed all restrictions upon trade with Norfolk.

The entire route of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad was now open.

An order dated San Francisco, April 30, issued by the Brigadier- General commanding the department of the Pacific, confiscates the property of certain persons for aiding and abetting the Confederates.

Mr. Barnum announces a new "Grand National Baby Show" at his Museum in New York. The premiums range from 500 dols. to 5 dols., and will be awarded by lady judges to the "finest babies, twins, triplets, quaterns, and fat babies."

The specie was being shipped to Europe in large quantities, and the premium of gold had risen to 4½ per cent.