
Latest News from Abroad

LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD.
The following telegrams were received through Mr. Reuter's office yesterday (Friday):—

AMERICA.

(Per steamer City of New York, viâ Queenstown.)

New York, March 14, Evening.

The Evening Post says the balance of advantage in the late movement of the rival armies on the Potomac is generally considered to be on the side of the Confederates, even by the Federal Generals and the warmest friends of the Union. The correspondent of the New York World says that the Confederate army made the most successful evacuation and the most secure and perfect retreat of which history furnishes example. It escaped safely with its entire right and left wings from every point threatened by the Federal lines, and securely carried off all its guns and three-fourths of the population, black and white. The next stand will be made on the banks of Reppahannock River, from Port Royal to Fredericksburg.

The Confederates have evacuated New Madrid, leaving guns and stores which they could not carry away. The Federal troops have occupied the town.

A rumour is current that island Number Ten has also been evacuated by the Confederates.

Reports have reached this city that General Beauregard has been appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Confederate army, and that Manassas was evacuated at his suggestion.

The Naval Committee has introduced a bill in Congress providing for the construction of an iron-clad steamer of 6 000 tons burden, to be used only as a ram, and appropriating 1,000,000 dols. for this and also 13,000,000 dols. for iron-clad gun-boats. The bill also appropriates 700,000 dols. for Stevens Battery, and 500,000 dols. for the extension of Washington Navy-yard, by erecting machinery to roll and forge plates for armour-clad ships.

President Lincoln has issued a war bulletin assigning General Fremont to the command of the military department of the county west of the Potomac and east of the departments of the Mississippi, to be called the Mountain Department.

General Fremont's appointment is regarded unfavourably in some quarters, and is looked upon as a conciliatory concession to the Republican party. Mr. Wadsworth, of Kentucky, in a speech in Congress opposing the Tax Bill, said that Fremont's appointment proved that an ultra class were all-powerful with the Administration.

The Richmond Examiner says: "We have a positive assurance that the evacuation of Manassas was not caused by pressure of the enemy, but took place purely from strategic reasons." A new line of defence will be organised, which will probably extend from Staunton to Gordonsville."

A portion of General Banks's division has occupied the important town of Winchester, Virginia. Twelve hundred Confederate cavalry, after a slight engagement, fled, and the Federals occupied the town.

Associated-Press despatches state that the Federals were received with loud cheers by the inhabitants of Winchester.

A bill has been brought forward in the House of Representatives proposing territorial government for the Seceded States. It was ordered to be laid on the table by a majority of 9.

President Davis has suspended Generals Floyd and Pillow for their unsatisfactory report of the evacuation of Fort Donnelson.

The Merrimac is at the Norfolk Navy-yard. A large force of workmen is engaged in repairing her. Her prongs were seriously damaged, and the forward part of the vessel was stove in. These are being strengthened.  

General Bragg has arrived at Memphis from Pensacola with 20,000 men. Memphis is reported to be in a state of anarchy, and martial law has been proclaimed there.

General Halleck officially reports that the Union forces had driven the Confederates from Paris, Tennessee. The Federal loss was 100 killed and wounded. 

A desperate fight, lasting one day, occurred on the 21st ultimo near Fort Craig, New Mexico, but with no decisive result.