
London, Saturday, May 3, 1862


LONDON, SATURDAY, MAY 3,1862.

...The principal item in the American despatches is one of correction. Upon obtaining something like truth in reference to the great battles of the 6th and 7th of April, near Corinth, it becomes quite clear that General Beauregard obtained a signal victory on the Sunday, but by no means evident that General Grant did anything on the Monday beyond presenting himself, reinforced, in such strength that Beauregard did not deem it meet to attack him again. But the Southerners had secured nearly 10,000 prisoners and many guns, and had retired slowly into safe intrenchments. These facts it was not natural that the Federals should be in a hurry to promulgate, and therefore we have had to wait until a comparison of details enabled us to shape the whole story into a reasonable form. The fights on both days were very fierce, and the slaughter was terrible. But the first time that Beauregard has had a chance of closing with his enemy (the great old chance that would have given Washington to the South having been thrown away), he has done his work with a dash that has been strangely wanting to the history of the campaign. The position of the Southern Confederacy has been much improved by the events of the last month, and it would seem that it will not be very long before there is an attempt made to terminate this fratricidal war by a mediation that will imply recognition. The position of General McClellan before Yorktown does not appear to have improved, but it was thought that the prospects of his enemies at Washington had improved very much, and that the intrigues directed against him would be successful. If he storms the Southern defences all will go well with him, but let him be repulsed, and then see how long King Mob will remember that M'Clellan made an army out of a brave rabble. The Merrimac is now represented as worth 50,000 men, and the other day she careened about in defiance while her consorts captured several Federal vessels in the sight of the English and French ships, the Union force allowing the capture to be made without interference, which forbearance is called by a less civil name by the journals that dare to speak out.