
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.UNITED STATES.
By the arrival of the Bohemian and City of New York we have news to the 14th inst.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.

The state of the weather and the roads has prohibited any further advance by General M'Clellan's army before Richmond. He reports his loss at the late engagement, called Fair Oaks, as having been 890 killed, 3627 wounded, and 1222 missing, making a total of 5739. The Richmond Despatch acknowledges a loss at the same battle of at least 8000, including 5 generals, 23 colonels, 10 majors, and 57 captains killed or taken prisoners. It is confirmed that General Joseph Johnston was among the wounded. The command of the Confederate army has therefore devolved on General Lee, whose address on taking the chief command informed his troops that they had made their last retreat, and that henceforth every man's watchword must be "Victory or death." President Davis had issued an address to the army, thanking them for their bravery at the late battle. The Governor of Virginia had ordered all stores in Richmond to be closed daily at two o'clock, to enable those in business to devote a portion of each day for drill and discipline.

General Fremont's army had reached Harrisonburg and driven Jackson's rear-guard from the town. General Fremont, in his official despatches, claims to have achieved a decided victory over the Confederates at Cross Keys. General Jackson had, however, made good his retreat from the Valley of the Shenandoah, inflicting some loss on the advance-guard of General Fremont's force. He hoped to join the main army in Richmond.

The Federal General Mitchell had routed the Confederates at Chattanooga, in East Tennessee, after two days' fighting. The East Tennesseeans came out in crowds along the line of march and cheered the Federalists.

We have no further intelligence of the progress of the attack on Charleston.

In the south-west, General Halleck reports that General Beauregard, with the main body of the Confederate army of the south-west, had retreated to Okolona, a station on the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, about forty miles south of Corinth. He had lost from 20,000 to 30,000 men by death, capture, desertion, and other casualties. He still commanded a force of about 80,000 men.

The citizens of Memphis have submitted patiently to their fate. The Federal Commander does not find it necessary to put the place under martial law. Of the eight Confederate gun-boats which defended Memphis four were captured, two were sunk, one burnt, and only one escaped by superior speed. Much cotton had been destroyed by its owners along the river banks, to which the Federals have now gained access.

 General Butler had arrested ex-Senator Pierre Soulé in New Orleans on a political charge, and intended sending him to the North.

WASHINGTON.

Secretary Welles had sent to the Naval Committees of Congress a long communication calling renewed attention to the subject of iron-plated ships and the necessity of providing for the construction of them in lieu of wooden vessels. He only asks for an appropriation of one or two millions of dollars for this purpose.

The Danish Government has made a proposition to the Federal Government to take a few thousand fugitive negroes off their hands and remove them to the Island Saint Croix free of charge. After an apprenticeship of three years with regular wages, the negroes would receive their freedom. Mr. Seward replied that he had no authority to accept the proposition, but he would lay it before Congress.

Secretary Chase, in a letter to the Committee on Ways and Means, asks authority to issue another 150,000,000 dols. in demand notes of not less denomination than five dols. each. The committee have reported a bill to this effect.

General Prim and Staff had been visiting the head-quarters of General M'Clellan near Richmond.

Lord Lyons had an interview with the President on the 13th, being on the eve of his departure for Europe.

An interview had taken place between the members of the foreign Legations and Mr. Seward on the question of the specie seized by General Butler at the Dutch Consul's residence in New Orleans. Mr. Seward has dispatched a commissioner from the State Department for the purpose of taking the necessary proofs for final consideration.

MISCELLANEOUS.

A missionary from New York, Mr. Collier, having opened schools for coloured people of all ages at Newbern was ordered to close them by Governor Stanly, the newly-appointed Unionist Governor of North Carolina. Mr. Collier resigned his situation, and laid his grievances before the New York public. The press throughout the North espoused his cause. President Lincoln, on being called upon to act, reversed the decision of Governor Stanly, and the coloured schools will be reopened.

In the Missouri State Convention a bill proposing a scheme of gradual emancipation was defeated by a vote of 52 against 19.

The export of large amounts of specie to Europe continues. The demand for gold has raised it to 7 per cent premium above its paper representative. This movement of specie is caused by the sale of American securities, owned by Europeans, who are tempted by the present high quotations in Wall-street to seize the opportunity for selling out.