
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Montreal Company's steamer Norwegian we have telegrams to the 26th ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS BY SEA AND LAND.

The Nashville had returned to Nassau, having been unable to run the blockade at Charleston. The steamer Cecil, however, and several small vessels at Nassau, had successfully run the blockade.

The Federals had got ready a third iron-plated steamer, and dispatched her to Fortress Monroe.

The city of Apalachicola, in Florida, was captured by two gun-boats on the 3rd ult. A few shells dispersed the Confederates who were in arms there, and the non-resistant portion of the population, consisting chiefly of women and children and "contrabands," were found almost starving. The blockade had effectually cut off all supplies from the seaboard, and their resources from the inland were not sufficient to maintain the ordinary comforts of life.

The Southern journals announce that the Federals commenced the bombardment of Fort Jackson, below New Orleans, on the 23rd ult. One thousand shells had fallen in the fort. The bombardment was continuing at last accounts.

General M'Clellan still sits down before the Confederate intrenchments at Yorktown. There have been some slight artillery duels, which have resulted favourably to the Federals. General McDowell and General Banks, each at the head of a corps-d'armée, are advancing upon Richmond from the North. McDowell had occupied Fredericksburg, without opposition, the municipal authorities, however, informing him that their submission was an enforced one, their hearts being with the Confederates. General Banks repeats that the enemy are evacuating the valley of the Shenandoah and falling back upon Gordonsville.

 The Federal General Mitchell had occupied Juka, a town in the extreme north-eastern portion of the State of Mississippi. His energetic movements in the northern part of this State, Alabama, and Georgia were causing much uneasiness to the Confederates.

General Halleck, in command near Corinth, has not yet made an assault upon Beauregard's position. In the meantime reinforcements were flowing in fast to the Southern General.

Fort Wright, on the Mississippi, seventy-eight miles above Memphis, is found to be strongly fortified and guarded by fourteen Confederate gun-boats. The Federal General Pope's division had left Fort Wright to reinforce General Halleck near Corinth. The Confederates resorted to the desperate measure of cutting through the levée on the Arkansas side of the Mississippi, thereby submerging the country for forty miles and preventing the advance of the Federal forces.

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.

President Davis had sent a message to Congress recommending the passage of a conscription law, declaring that all men between the ages of eighteen and thirty-five years are rightfully subject to military duty, and should be held to be in the military service of the Confederate States.

M. Mercier, the French Minister, had left Richmond and returned to Washington. The Danish and Swedish Ministers were, at last accounts, on their way to the Confederate capital.

WASHINGTON.

The policy of making freedom national and slavery sectional is being pursued with vigour by the Federal Executive and Legislature. The Senate has ratified the new treaty with Great Britain for the suppression of the slave trade. The Washington correspondent of the New York Commercial Advertiser writes thus of its provisions:—

It is understood to recognise the right of search by naval vessels especially commissioned for the purpose by either power, within certain limits off the coasts of Africa and Cuba. Joint British and American Admiralty Courts are to be established at New York and at Sierra Leone for the examination of suspected vessels.

The Senate has also passed a bill recognising and establishing diplomatic relations with the Negro States of Hayti and Liberia. The same body has passed a bill for establishing a line of armed steamers between San Francisco and Shanghai.

President Lincoln had formally avowed the proceeding taken by ex-Secretary Cameron against Mr. Pierce Butler, which proceeding had led to the arrest of Mr. Cameron in Philadelphia.

THE CENSORSHIP OF THE PRESS.

The New York journals begin to complain bitterly of the censorship as wielded by Mr. Stanton. The New York Times has an editorial article on the subject, which, after detailing the severity of the surveillance exercised over the war correspondents of the leading journals and remarking on the keen relish with which Mr. Stanton enjoyed the sport, concludes in this strain:—

The experiment has been tried. The censorship has had full swing, and it is in evidence that no movement of the Union Army has been made of which the rebels were not fully apprised. The knowledge through the secretary's interference was only withheld from the loyal people of the North. Proof of themerely gratuitous and mischievous nature of the censorship could not be more perfect. It has become to press and people an intolerable grievance, and, unfortunately, there has been no such realisation of the hopes entertained upon the coming of Mr. Stanton to office as to warrant him in trifling further with public endurance. Disappointed in the War Minister, the people will dispense with his services as agent of secret police.

OPENING OF NAVIGATION.
The western lakes are released from their ice blockade, and the eastward movement of agricultural produce has commenced.