
The Tuscarora in Southampton Water
      
THE TUSCARORA IN SOUTHAMPTON WATER.
This vessel, whose presence in Southampton Water has caused the greatest excitement for the last fortnight, still keeps her position off the mouth of the Itchen, supposed to be waiting the arrival of the Sumter and holding a sharp look out on the movements of the Nashville, still safely berthed in Southampton Docks. On Monday week the Tuscarora weighed, and proceeded down the water, anchoring for the day between Calshot Castle and the Lightship, returning to her old moorings in the evening. On the following Thursday she made an excursion round the Isle of Wight, and completed her cruise by bringing up off Osborne, which quarters she quickly received notice to leave, and she then returned to her old position as shown in our Engraving. She is a smart, handsome-looking craft, heavily armed, with eight Dalhgren guns—two of them, placed amidships, are the famous columbiad 120-pounders—and a rifled 30-pounder of Parrot's on her forecastle. She is commanded by Captain Craven, and has a large and well-appointed crew of 200 men.

Messrs. Slidell and Mason and their secretaries have sailed from Halifax for Bermuda.

The United States' Government is erecting batteries on Croil's island in the Long Sault of the St. Lawrence. These batteries will command the Canadian Cornwall Canal.

The Confederate steamer Sumter was ordered on Saturday last to quit Cadiz within six hours. She accordingly proceeded to Gibraltar. Before entering that port she captured two American vessels, one of which she burned, releasing the other, apparently because she was bound to a British port, and was laden with a cargo belonging to neutrals.

The West Indian, a vessel belonging to a Southern planter, has arrived at Liverpool direct from Charleston, having successfully run the blockade. She is 241 tons burden, and has a full cargo of spirits of turpentine. She left Charleston in the evening of the 24th of December. It was a fine starlight night, with a favourable wind; the blockade was run without meeting with any of the blockading fleet. The West Indian left Charleston after the stone fleet had been sunk, and ran down to the sea through one of channels left open by the Federals. 