

London, Saturday, January 25, 1862

LONDON, SATURDAY, JANUARY 25, 1862.
...Once more we hear from America that a grand movement by the North is in hand. Land and water armaments are to penetrate into the heart of the South, Nashville is to be taken, and then a great blow is to be struck at New Orleans. We can only say, as heretofore, that we shall see. The Mississippi will now be the centre of interest for the spectators of the strife. The sinews of war are to be provided by a tax of 150 millions of dollars, at least such is the resolution of the Congressional Committee of Ways and Means. There had been some violent anti-English language in both Houses, but it seems to have expressed the feelings of a miserable minority, the people generally being bent upon the prosecution of the war with the South. It was said that the vindictive effort to destroy Charleston harbour was not likely to be very mischievous, some reports declaring that the sinking of the vessels would actually facilitate the improvement of the port, while Southern organs thank the North for having made the city impregnable. The American question has not received much public discussion here during the week, save that Mr. Massey, the Chairman of Committees and in some sort a Government authority, has delivered a speech in which he manifested a desire that the blockade should be broken. The journals of the Southern States believe that Lord Palmerston's Government are friendly to the North, and that the people of England are inclined towards the South; and therefore the slave journalists venture to predict a speedy fall for our present Administration. We cite this in evidence of the utter ignorance of the Americans of English affairs.
...
As regards foreign affairs there is not much to record, except that the Spanish expedition to Mexico is left to do the principal part of the work of amelioration; and the commander seems inclined to perform his duties in an effective way, and one which would probably invite unfriendly interference by the United States if they were united and had not their hands full. But circumstances forbid the enforcement of the insolent and nonsensical doctrine that the Powers of the East have no right to interfere in the affairs of the Western World, a bit of geographical pedantry which will certainly not be tolerated in Europe. The interests of the New World are too important to the Old to permit their being left in the hands of any single nation.