
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.
AMERICA.
By the arrival of the North American we have telegrams from New York to the 1st inst.

THE BURNSIDE EXPEDITION.

This expedition, consisting of 125 vessels of all classes, started from Hampton Roads, in Chesapeake Bay, on the 11th and 12th ult. Encountering heavy fogs and severe storms, they did not arrive at Hatteras until the 15th. The screw-steamer New York ran on the bar at the entrance to the harbour and soon became a total wreck. All hands were saved; but her cargo, consisting of 200,000 dols. worth of powder, rifles, and bombs, was totally lost. The gun-boat Zouave and the steamer Pocahontas were also wrecked near the lighthouse. Ninety valuable horses belonging to the Rhode Island Battery had to be thrown overboard. Several tow-boats, and schooners laden with provisions, were wrecked. No lives were lost except those of the colonel and surgeon of a New Jersey regiment and a mate, through the swamping of a life-boat. Up to the 26th ult. General Burnside had made no advance beyond Hatteras Bar. The precise object of the expedition still remains undisclosed to the public.

THE FEDERAL VICTORY IN SOUTHERN KENTUCKY.

General Thomas's official report of the battle at Mill Spring has been published. The affair was as decisive as the first reports represented it to be. A war correspondent thus describes the manner in which the Confederate General Zollicoffer met his death:—
At the point of the V died General Z. He fell nearer our camp than any other man of his army. He was with Battle's regiment, his own home friends, born and brought up around him at Nashville. A short distance from him, to his right, a party of his men had been broken from their comrades and were herding together like frightened deer. Colonel Fry's men (loyal Kentuckians) were just about to fire on them. Colonel Fry himself was at the right of his regiment, at the point of greatest danger. General Zollicoffer was on foot, and within a few feet of the Colonel. A gunboat concealed his uniform. Seeing the condition of his men, as the Colonel rode up, General Z. said, "Colonel, you would not fire upon your friends, would you?" Colonel F. supposed from the General's manner and remark that he was one of our own officers, and at once replied, "Certainly not, Sir; I have no such intention." He turned and rode a few steps, when one of the General's aides fired at him, wounding his horse. Believing that he was tricked, Colonel Fry at once wheeled and fired at the General with his revolver. The latter raised his hand to his breast and fell dead.

OTHER BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS.

The Federals have taken possession of Cedar Keys, a small group of islands on the west coast of Florida, and the western terminus of the railroad across the isthmus to Fernandina.

Six vessels have been sunk in Moffat's Channel, Charleston. Eight more will be sunk immediately. This channel was left open when the main channel was stopped up.

A Confederate ship of war, the Calhoun, while on her way from Havannah to Charleston, being chased by a Federal ship of war, was abandoned and burnt. Mr. Reynolds, the Federal agent at Port Royal, had returned to Washington. He reported that he had gathered about 1,000,000 dols. worth of cotton, and that 3000 negroes were regularly employed in gathering it.

WASHINGTON.

Bishop Amos, of Ohio, of the Methodist Episcopal Church, and the Hon. Hamilton Fish, of New York, have been appointed Commissioners to the Confederate States for the purpose of relieving the necessities of Federal prisoners there.

The Congressional Committee appointed to report upon the gun-boat contracts made by the brother-in-law of the Secretary of the Navy had condemned the system. The House Committee on the district of Columbia have decided to report adversely to the proposition to abolish slavery in the district. The House has also refused to taken any steps towards the recognition of the Republic of Hayti.

General Goicuria had arrived at Washington on a mission from the Mexican Government.

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.
The remains of the late Mr. Tyler lay in state in the capitol at Richmond, and were honoured with a public funeral. He was nearly seventy-two years of age at the time of his decease. There are now four living ex-Presidents of the United States—namely, Van Buren, Fillmore, Pierce, and Buchanan.  

General Beauregard, with 15,000 men, has left Eastern Virginia for Kentucky, in order to make head against the Federals there, President Jefferson Davis will command at Manassas.
UTAH.
This Mormonite territory demands admission into the Union. Delegates assembled at Salt Lake City on Jan. 22 and drew up a State Constitution to be submitted to Congress.It is not probable that their petition will be granted, as in the eyes of the dominant party of the United States "polygamy and slavery are twin-relics of barbarism."
