
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWSAMERICA.
By the arrival of the Canada we have Boston journals to the 22nd ultimo.

THE FEDERAL VICTORY IN KENTUCKY.

The Confederate General Zollicoffer, who occupied a strong position on the north bank of the Cumberland River, in South-eastern Kentucky, finding that General Thomas, at the head of a Federal division of 15,000 men, was menacing his rear, determined to attempt to drive back General Schoepf, whose force of 8000 men was intrenched at Somerset, a little town six miles north of the Cumberland River. On the 18th the attack took place, and the battle lasted nearly all day. General Zollicoffer was killed, and his army retreated precipitately to their intrenchments on Cumberland River. On the following day General Thomas came up and followed the Confederates to their intrenchments. On Monday, the 20th, he was preparing to storm them, when he found them deserted, the enemy having left all their cannon, stores, tents, horses, and waggons in his hands. Even the steam-boat and nine barges the fugitives had used to cross the river were found uninjured. It is computed that 275 Confederates were killed and wounded, while the Federal loss is acknowledged to have been heavy, one regiment having had seventy-five killed and wounded. General Zollicoffer's body is in the hands of the victors. General Schoepf is a Hungarian refugee, and when the war broke out was holding the humble position of messenger in the Patent Office at Washington.

OTHER MILITARY AND NAVAL NEWS.

The Burnside expedition had made its appearance off the coast of North Carolina.

The movement from Cairo was only a reconnaissance.

The army of the Potomac is said to be held in check by the fathomless mud of the Virginia roads. The health of General M'Clellan, though improved, does not yet enable him to be as active as he could wish. Very little is said of the sanitary condition of the army by the journals. The Washington correspondent of the New York Independent, however, draws a gloomy picture of the camp hospitals:—"Complaints are constantly made and rarely listened to by the proper authorities. The regular hospitals within the district are in an excellent condition, but the regimental and brigade hospitals in Virginia are in a shocking state. The Sanitary Commission does not usually extend its care to them. In one of them eighty sick men have lain for weeks without bed, straw, sheet, or pillow. Beds and bedding are generally unknown to these places, and the gifts of the benevolent never reach them. The sick soldiers pass through the most distressing and long-continued fevers in their usual military clothes."
About 1000 prisoners have been exchanged by the two belligerent Governments.
Mass meetings of German citizens had been held in several places, to denounce the treatment received by General Sigel, of Missouri, at the hands of General Halleck. The resolutions denounced the narrow spirit of nativism with which the graduates of West Point were animated towards officers of European birth and education.

CONGRESS.

The Senate have confirmed the appointments of Mr. Stanton and Mr. Cameron to the posts assigned to them by the President.

The Committee of Ways and Means has reported to the House a National Currency and Loan Bill, which proposes to make 150,000,000 dol. worth of Treasury notes a legal tender, to be convertible into Six per Cent Stocks; also to create a Six per Cent Stock of 500,000,000 dollars, which is to be used in payment of the floating debt and for funding the Treasury notes.

A bill to abolish the franking privilege has passed both Houses of Congress.  

Mr. SEWARD AND THE PRUSSIAN GOVERNMENT.

In his reply thanking Prussia for her advice, Mr. Seward suggests the propriety of Prussia improving the occasion to recommend the general policy relative to neutral rights suggested by the American Government to the European States. He adds that the "periods when the United States will have occasion to act the part of a belligerent will probably be few and brief."

THE CONFEDERATE STATES.

Richmond advices report the arrival of the British Steamer Gladiator at Savannah and the Confederate steamer Vanderbilt at Charleston, both vessels having run the blockade. The former vessel, which had been waiting at Nassau for some time, was laden with arms, stores, and clothing.
Ex-President Tyler died at Richmond on the 17th ult. after a very brief illness. Mr. Tyler was elected Vice-President in 1840 by the Whig party, and succeeded to the presidential office on the death of General Harrison, in April, 1841.

A report from New Orleans says that a large meeting of the French residents was held on the 10th ult., to devise some means of leaving the Confederate States. A committee was appointed to communicate with the Federal forces at Ship Island on the subject.

BRITISH OFFICERS EN ROUTE FOR CANADA.

The British officers who passed through the United States en route for Canada were pleased with the courtesy extended towards them by - the officials and the people. One of them who went out by the Canada, and arrived at Boston on the 10th ult. writes a follows:—
On landing the next morning the English passengers were no less delighted than surprised to find that the sinister anticipations which we had entertained of annoyance from the mob were so far from being realised that we were received with the utmost politeness and courtesy. The whole of the baggage was permitted to pass through the Custom House without examination, and in no single instance was a passport demanded, while, accustomed as I am to the attention and courtesy which a stranger usually receives in an American city, I was most agreeably astonished, so soon after the surrender of the Commissioners, and in the very place of their late imprisonment, to be welcomed with a friendliness and a warmth which left nothing to be desired.

On the journey from Boston to Buffalo by the New York Central Railway and its connections, the "conversation of the passengers on the topic of the day confirmed the opinion which I had formed at Boston, that a great reaction had set in in favour of England."

CALIFORNIA.

The State Legislature, which meets at Sacramento city, had adjourned to allow the water to subside. The people of San Francisco had sent aid to the distressed citizens in cooked provisions and clothing. The American River, on which the city lies, rose at one time fifty feet. Very heavy rains continued to fall, and it was expected that the annual gold products of California would be reduced by millions of dollars. Oregon and Washington Territory had been similarly visited.