
London, Saturday, March 1, 1862


LONDON, SATURDAY, MARCH 1, 1862
The arms of the Federal Government have achieved a valuable success in the capture of the isle of Roanoke. The destruction of the weak fleet of the Confederates is a small matter, but the opening up the way for General Burnside to attack in rear the army, which it was not thought advisable to assail in front, is an operation that makes a mark in the campaign. The country into which General Burnside has to penetrate, if he is to assume the offensive, is very difficult, but there is reason to believe that its difficulties have been exaggerated. At all events, he has established a base of operations. The plan of General M'Clellan would appear to be a scheme for sundering the Confederate forces as much as possible, instead of attempting to overwhelm them in little; and if he perseveres in such tactics, and the money of the North hold out, he may have the honour of achieving a comparatively bloodless triumph. The officers of the South have learned the trade of war, and know better than to refuse to surrender untenable positions. In the meantime, the civilians are warring in Congress, and Mr. Charles Sumner has laid before it his bold proposal for dealing with the South. He wishes to declare all local government in the Slave States as at an end, to reduce those States to the condition of territories, and thereby to place the whole population, including the four millions of slaves, on an equality of civil rights. It can hardly be supposed that Congress will think that matters are sufficiently forward for the adoption of this plan, which could be justified only when the North should be in force sufficient to prevent the servile war that would be invited by such a proclamation; but that such a proposition should be brought forward at all shows the increasing power and courage of the Abolitionists. In London the birthday of Washington has been celebrated by American residents and visitors, but the demonstration has been confined to the Loyalists, and the most friendly sentiments towards England were enunciated....
It is stated that the Captain of the Sumter has been arrested at the instance of the Captain of the Tuscarora, but we do not learn, as yet, whether the former is to be handed over to the latter; if so, there will be "a short shrift."