
Foreign and Colonial News

FOREIGN AND COLONIAL NEWS.AMERICA.
By the arrival of the Jura and Edinburgh we are in receipt of news to the 24th ult.

BELLIGERENT OPERATIONS ON LAND AND SEA.

General M'Clellan continues his advance on Richmond without encountering any serious impediment. A portion of his army had crossed the Chickahominy at Bottom's Bridge; another division crossed the Chickahominy at New Bridge; seven miles further up, and within eight miles of Richmond. The Federal vanguard is reported to be five miles from the Southern capital, to which point the Confederates had fallen back without any real resistance.

Nothing further has been done by the gun-boats on the James River. The report that the Federals lost above 1000 men on that occasion was a gross exaggeration. The report of the surgeon gives 13 killed and 11 wounded on the Galena; to which may be added 17 killed in the Nangatuck by the explosion of her gun.

The Mayor and City Council of Norfolk having refused to take the oath of allegiance, and a general spirit of resistance among the citizens having manifested itself, General Wool had declared martial law, and announced that Norfolk would be cut off from trade and commerce unless the people returned to their allegiance.

General Banks has suffered a check in the valley of the Shenandoah. The Confederates, under General Jackson, had driven the Federal Colonel Bentley's command from Front Royal with considerable loss, and taken possession of the place.

The "guerrillas" are active in Western Virginia in harassing the Federals under Fremont.

Pensacola was evacuated by the Confederates on the 9th ult., after destroying the Navy-yard and the forts. The city had been occupied by the Federals.

Advices from Key West report that the British iron steamer Circassian, with a cargo of tea, silk, coffee, and munitions of war, valued at 1,000,000 dols., had been seized by the blockading fleet.

The flotilla of Commodore Farragut had advanced up the Mississippi to Vicksburg, 400 miles from New Orleans, without meeting any resistance.

From the Upper Mississippi it is reported that the Confederates have abandoned Fort Wright, and fallen back on Fort Randolph.

Active skirmishing goes on between the armies of Beauregard and Halleck near Corinth. That of the former is said to be suffering much from sickness and paucity of food.

WASHINGTON.

The War Department had issued a call for a fresh levy of volunteers. All the recruiting stations are reopened.

Mr. Seward had notified the foreign Ministers that the blockade of the several seaport towns in the occupation of the Federals had ceased; but that the mails and trade would be subject to military surveillance.

The House of Representatives have passed a bill by a majority of 32 for giving grants of land and loaning the public credit to a company formed to construct the Pacific Railroad. The route chosen is known as the "middle" route, and starts from Western Kansas.

The United States' District Court had ordered the restitution of the British steamer Labuan, the seizure off the Rio Grande and the Mexican coast being declared illegal.

A collision between the police and the military had occurred in the streets of Washington. A body of police, provided with the proper writs, seized two negroes from the ranks and placed them in gaol. An effort was made to arrest six or eight other fugitives in the same manner, when the soldiers pointed their muskets and forced the police to desist from their enterprise.

RICHMOND.

Richmond papers of the 16th contain a correspondence between Mr. Davis and the Virginia Legislature in regard to the recent movements of the rebel army. He states that he never intended to withdraw the army from Virginia; that if in the course of events Richmond should fall, the necessity of which he did not see or anticipate, that would be no reason for withdrawing the army from Virginia. In his opinion the war could be successfully carried on on Virginia soil for twenty years.

PERSONAL.

Mrs. Mary C. Thorne, the last surviving witness of the execution of Major André, died in New York on the 10th ult., at the age of ninety-two. Her father was a Quartermaster of the Continental Army, and was stationed in the Highlands when André's capture and execution took place.

Mr. Drew, the Irish comedian, died suddenly at Philadelphia on the the 21st ult. He had just completed a successful engagement of one hundred nights, and was about starting for a second tour to Europe. He was 36 years of age. He emigrated to the United States about fifteen years ago. He had performed in California and Australia with great success. Three children survive him.

Mr. J. S. Barey is lecturing at the Cooper Institute, New York.