

Latest News from Abroad
      
LATEST NEWS FROM ABROAD
The following telegrams were received at Mr. Reuters office yesterday (Friday):—
...Thomas D'Arcy M'Gee, in a letter just published, declining to speak at a festival of the New England Society, at Montreal, writes as follows:—
"I declare most absolutely, and it is well that the opponents of Canada should know in time, that the Irish inhabitants of this colony will be found embattled as one man in defence of the Canadian Constitution and the Imperial connection. There is hardly a group of Irish settlers in Upper or Lower Canada that I have not personally visited during the last four or five years. There is not a man of note amongst them, layman or cleric, that I have not met: and I declare that I have yet to meet the first man of all those bodies and orders of men who does not frankly and loyally prefer our Canadian Institutions to those of the United States. Formerly, I believe, it was different with many among them (as I own it was some years ago with myself); but since the era of 'the knownothing' movement the last vestige of political preference for the United States has disappeared among the Irish here."

Arrival of a Federal War-Steamer at Southampton.—
A correspondent writes from Southampton on Wednesday evening as follows:—"The Tuscarora, one of the new screw-corvettes built for the Federal Navy, arrived in the river this afternoon, about half-past three o'clock, from New York. She left that port on the 15th ult., and had a very rough passage across the Atlantic, and put into Fayal for coals, sailing thence eight days since. From Fayal she has had fine weather. The Tuscarora is commanded by Captain T. Augustus Craven, and her officers and crew number about 200 in all. She mounts nine heavy guns, two of them the famous 11-inch columbiads (both on pivots), six broadside guns, and a rifled Parrot gun on the forecastle. The corvette is a smart-looking vessel, of 1200 tons burden, and barque rigged. She is just built, and only arrived at New York from Philadelphia on the 9th ult. It is understood that her mission in these waters is specially to look after the Nashville, and generally to protect the interests of Federal shipping. The Nashville remains in dock, and her future movements are, of course, kept profoundly secret. She is coaled and ready for sea; and it was rumoured this morning that she was going out of dock during the day into the river; but up to this time (five p.m.) she is lying quietly in her berth. Whether she will now keep her quarters a close prisoner, keenly watched by the Tuscarora, until the conflict is over, or whether, on some favourable opportunity, she will venture to 'run the blockade' and escape, time only can determine."